here there we
go
so
hello we've got some stuff to look at
um the goal for today is to get the Moa
into a spot where
it can find interesting Solutions on its
own and we won't have to touch it for a
bit we'll just have to do some
experiments that is the goal at the
moment uh we have to check a couple of
the things from yesterday we have some
bugs to fix we've got some visual
stuff whole bunch of
things let me turn the uh the AC one
second and then we'll start on this
okay so first thing is going to
be the experiments so I realized
something from yesterday we did a bunch
of uh balancing to the game we added a
couple features yada yada and then it
started
to the point where there was a one in a
billion roughly maybe even a little
rarer bug that would cause the game to
hang
um I saw a thing that I thought maybe
could be the issue where I forgot to
type in index variable so I went and I
edited that that changed the output a
little bit but I was still getting the
hanging bug so what I
did and let see if it's
working okay so I think I've narrowed it
down I think I narrowed down the issue
if we go onto the w b sweeps
here so this was the old sweep from
before crashed three experiments in
usually we'll crash somewhere between
two and six
experiments okay so we're going to go to
carbs we're going to look at the latest
sweep and there you go this one has 16
runs and you can see actually it finds
some good
stuff
so I think that based on that uh what I
did to make it not hang was I disabled
the neutral spawns so
somewhere somewhere in the neutral
spawns there's either a loop or an out
of bounds index or or
something and that's what we're going to
have to
find we're going to dedicate a little
bit of time to looking for this
now if I can't find it in about half an
hour I'm going to start like just
turning on debug flags and running more
experiments but I'm going to try to find
it manually first and then we're going
to clean up the visuals that we were
working on
yesterday and then hopefully the one
other thing we might want to do is we
might might want to mess with the
network sizes
but between all those things I think we
should be good
and the hope is that if we enable the
new neutral camps uh things will learn
how to
Jungle there'll be more interesting
strategies coming out of
stuff and we'll see some some cool
learned
behaviors yeah
and we have all the graphs to track
everything
okay
so oh we also have the Atari run to look
at don't we let's wait on let's wait on
the Atari runs though because let's I
want to get this while I'm perfectly
fresh
bug you're free to try to spot it if you
would like as well
data we set a bunch of
stats we don't set
everything we don't set
everything is it possible that we failed
to set something so now we have
uninitialized
data
Maybe what type of stuff did we set
here base Health base
Mana no this is only applied to the
player
I don't think there are any other
variables that I forgot about but it is
possible oh what about
these hold
on these are all un initialized
right it shouldn't matter because I
don't think we use
them what do I set for
creeps what do I set for for the
creeps I don't set any of this stuff for
the
72 I think I have this
correct remember the this is a one in a
billion
bug this isn't something that should
just happen
whenever you spawn the neutrals at
all this has to be something
like there has to be an interaction
between a neutral and something
else I don't think it would just be when
you kill a neutral either
right no these experiments would surely
kill
neutrals before they crash I think let
me
check let me check something on
that welcome YouTube
folks we're going to fix this stuff
I thought we had logged
this but maybe
not it still it seems incredibly
unlikely to me
that it takes this many experiments
where like they're gaining levels and
stuff surely somebody killed a neutral
by then
there every 600
ticks you
respawn four time Camp plus neutral
comma
Camp I don't think Camp is used here
right this is literally not used
good we set the PID to ID plus agents
plus creeps
is that what it
works ID plus agents plus creeps this is
how we have the indexing
set neutral health is neutral Max
Health basic attack timer get set to
zero could it be something with the
spawning
hold
on move
to doesn't move to clear the tile that
you start
killed when these are killed
X and Y get set to zero
on there might be something here as well
it might be that I'm riding over the
neutrals with the creeps
clearly this is the downside to uh the
design of how I have the game this
way I don't know we'll do a design
session at some point and think if
there's better data structure for this
but we're not going to redo data
structures right
now this is what happens though when you
have a flat indexing for all the
entities and you don't have indexing for
different types is you have to do all
the indexing math and if you get it
wrong you're going to be sad
self. creep
index percent num
creeps but I think spawn creep takes it
doesn't take an ID it doesn't take a
player ID it just takes an index
right yes and then what do we do it's
idx plus numb agents is that
correct yeah the format is entities
creeps neutrals Towers
neutrals what is the logic that I use
for spawning these creeps I remember it
being tricky
okay so you have your spawn logic
here and then this
is this is the logic that is
used in Step
creeps it looks very
similar get creep get neutral check PID
check PID update status update cooldowns
update St update cool Downs check stun
timer and then call AI these functions
are
identical
so it's not in the step function then
I'm pretty confident it's not in the
step function
let's do the same thing for the respawn
environment you can see that I manually
go through and I set the pids and the
positions of everything to zero
okay now we have this spawn creep and
respawn creep
how do these functions look compared to
each other
to the respawn is a useless function
because we always call spawn with
respawn we're not looking to clean this
up just yet though we're just looking to
isolate this one
bug so if we're considering these two
together we do a lot of stuff
right we set PID
is it
possible to fail to
respawn a
neutral the way I have stuff at the
moment I'm pretty sure if you if it
can't find a spawning position for
whatever
reason then it just breaks
spawn when you call but these functions
are
different because when you spawn re when
you call respawn
neutrals they might be alive still they
might not it just respawns them
regardless it doesn't have a massive
range
either percent 7 minus 3
because you're calling you're setting
the he healthier and then you're setting
the healthier
again so this is not actually a
difference
and the thing
is the fact that the code was hanging
doesn't tell me anything either because
I don't have anywhere that it could hang
I don't have anywhere that this could
it that shouldn't matter though that
does occasionally do weird things in
scon I'm not using it as a multiple or
anything
though sometimes it does weird things
with Cass when you don't type it um
I'm trying to think it could be
something in the initialization as
well or it could just
be okay let me think working theories
here
so what happens when you fail to respawn
a
right so this is just going to move to
the position regardless of whether it's
valid
right so this is quite
bad oops
entities though I'm pretty sure even if
you do this the other entities will
still be able to move around
false yeah yeah so this is not true so
this can fail essentially actually
be I'm trying to think if this would
actually do anything though I don't want
to just like run stuff if I don't think
it's going to fix
things what's the difference between
just just checking if it's empty and
calling move to
anything this is just
checking checking if the cell is
explicitly
empty
oh hold
complicated I don't think that this
changes anything
I will start a run with it in the
background as I'm looking for more stuff
though just because I it might actually
be it I can't quite tell I don't think
that there's anything different in this
but I could be
wrong okay so we replace this with this
if grid empty
we break we don't need this valid pause
thing and then we just do self. move to
neutral
before this always succeeds because the
grid is empty
finish I'm trying to think if that would
make a difference
though there are a few things that I'm
just not sure about
so
the the creeps have a more predictable
spawning
area they spawn in this like this open
area by the
ancient whereas the neutrals they have
to spawn in
camps
um technically I think if there were a
fight to happen like on one of the
neutral Camp spawn zones like if a few
agents would would be there it could be
possible that there's nowhere to spawn
them it would be very rare but then
again this bug is very rare
cuz I'm pretty sure that the way that
this works now is that I just don't have
a way to
handle failing to spawn an
agent it to be fair it could be nothing
in the spawn logic it could be in the AI
I haven't looked at the neutral AI in a
while but it's clearly something to do
with the
this and then we'll see if this one gets
stuck I think that this will still get
stuck so we're going to go look at the
creep uh the neutral AI in the
meantime but this is now running with
neutrals also it is possible that um the
agents are learning to do new stuff that
I hadn't considered because there is a
pretty strong incentive now for them to
learn how to Jungle and
well do I have creep it yeah perfect I
have them on one screen if I just
yeah
so creep AI is Waypoint
just double check neutral
AI it only gets called if the agent is
valid that's
correct so you do the scan for
AOE you check if it finds a
Target of neutral
Yep this the same exact
code and
then okay now there's a
difference but only a small one because
I cach the target dust y dust
X so I
compare creep Y which is neutral Y and d
y which is Target
y i compute a
distance and I compare it to
two and then I do a basic attack that's
agent
speed d y d
okay so this logic is exactly the
same
I don't see anything wrong with this I
was trying to see if like maybe the
spawn the spawn point is obstructed so
there's no way to path back home
zero
yeah this function should be
fine and what else would it be that
would be wrong with the
neutrals
specifically I mean we had the candidate
options of them not being able to be
spawned
is you're running a lot of
games what's the likelihood that like a
wave gets pulled
and it it also doesn't attempt to spawn
in every spot right it
will it doesn't attempt to spawn the
creep wave on every
spot it only attempts to spawn the creep
wave 10
times and if it fails
fails then I think it would that break
the
code I think
so I think having an entity at 0 0 will
break the code
how confident am I that that's what it
is that that's what hap that is what is
it's not stuck already right
no I'm pretty sure that this will fix it
though and it will be interesting if it
does
not I think this is very likely to fix
it
because basically I'm just saying if
look if somehow some weird Edge case
happens and you can't spawn a neutral
you can't respawn in neutral
out
ah look at that
okay so now we know there are screwy
things going on with our respawning
come on we just saw it ah there it is oh
um
71 7144 there's a specific
Camp there is a specific
Camp I forgot to rebuild
though we're going to run this again I'm
going to go uh fix the let me fix the AC
one last one other time
swear it's always either trying to
freeze me or boil
me what I wouldn't give for an AC that
actually maintains a constant
temperature
okay grid is
one which is a wall
camp let me see if I can figure out
where
is I think it's roughly double as well
right so 71 is should be like 140
it's like this thing here isn't it
there's like a camp that's respawning
into this giant cluster
yeah it is literally just
uh you go I think over two more so
it 14490 I
think
really is there a camp here
I no I did
YX so it is
[Music]
thing oh cuz I did this wrong again it's
90 it's 144
down and then 90 over oh
wait yeah look at
that you see
it it's just a camp that's like the
spawn position is either slightly off or
um
the spawn positions either slightly
offer or something like that and it's
just spawning
into uh into Rubble
zones is it really that common that it
messes up
like is it is it actually the case that
there are no spawn like no valid spawns
or is it just like eventually if you run
this long enough you'll get unlucky and
it won't pick one of them
10 let's say that half the spaces are
obscured
there one
in24 to just miss the
spawn we're running giant
there was probably more to it though
right it was
[Music]
probably it was probably something like
you're attacking it on the same tick
that it respawns wrong or something
weird like like
now and we're going to hope that this
fixes
it I think this
does I think it
does right let me fix the restream chat
as
well uh where is
docs chat
oh right I can't because the restream
authentication thing [ __ ]
breaks it's really
damn it well I'll have to
suffice I wanted to make it a little
less transparent
but
whatever we'll leave it for
now let's go look at the experiments
that we ran um because at least we have
a sweep that's
doing something
uh is
that is this real
uh
welcome I'm a bit
confused I think carbs isn't working
perfectly as as we want it to because it
should be consistently the performance
should be a lot more consistent
across hyper prams
right oh it is running longer
experiments
hello
welcome
uh yeah apparently carbs is just a god
algorithm hold
on the
[ __ ] it just finds but the thing is this
we're going to look at this and it's
going to be weird I
swear so here let's take the filter
off show me your Le code
profile I don't have
one I've never done leak
code I probably wouldn't be able to
solve most like easy leak code easys
that's a funny thing isn't
it turns out there's basically zero
overlap between leak code and building
stuff let me move the camera around
because it's hard to read the
what are we working on today we're
working on a lot of
stuff I'll hold on one sec let me fix
the so we can actually read
chat um
actually the leak code thing is really
funny so while I was in undergrad we did
a survey to see if like there was any
correlation between leak code and
actually being able to do stuff and one
of the people that did the best on leak
code was like a random biology freshman
that we sent it to by
mistake hey Joseph just saw your thesis
defense
welcome we are building the future of
reinforcement learning very very slowly
here well slow on the span of hour by
hour actually the progress is pretty
fast week by
start why is this thing not okay there
um yeah Tyler so this is basically I've
graduated I'm trying to take all the
stuff from neural MMO I learned and
build like tons of ridiculously high
performance Sims for reinforcement
learning a whole tool stack to make RL
way way easier and more consistent
generally simple high performance and
it's been going really well and we have
crazy stuff coming out of it like
this I think we kind of just shredded
atar I'm sure this is going to be a
really weird set of params we'll look at
this in a second but yeah Harry so um
we're doing the Moa for the most part
today I had some bug that was causing it
to hang so I couldn't get sweeps for a
day or so so I think I just fixed that
like 10 minutes ago I have a sweep
running we're going to see if it if it
works in the meantime we're going to
take do a little analysis on this launch
a new set of Atari
experiments and then
um go back to the Moa and probably do
there's a little graphic stuff I wanted
to do for fun on it just to make it look
nice and then uh I'll think about what
to do from
there but
if I look at these parameters here
like highest correlation is time
steps can I just hover
over the problem is Javascript here is
not going to be very happy okay here are
the parameters let me
yeah what's your opinion on
Rust why is everybody is looking mad
about this Lang I have absolutely no
interest in using rust or involving
myself with rust in any way um I do not
like the language I have not used it
very much but I it just doesn't have
anything that I would want in it at
all uh yeah
I I actually I have started doing some
stuff in C lately and I've been really
enjoying that uh I would not enjoy doing
rust it's just there too many moving
Parts in the thing the main feature of
memory safety is not something that I
want it gets in your way a ton in order
to enforce that I do not like it
looking at these hyper prams
here 32k
batch very
small oh actually is this a San set of
hyper parameters hold
on this actually might be a San set of
hyper
parameters which I'd be kind of
interested in
the wand Bui really needs to work above
like above a few hundred runs
though so here's the
curve 30 minutes for the
experiment ah so this is what I was
looking for um
Chris well I mean what am I going to
tell him hey guys can you write your
front end in something that like works
for more than a 100 experiments like
it's JavaScript or whatever right I'm
this is
like hey guys do you want to just go do
do me a favor and rewrite your whole
front end and see
thing currently a PhD and E been really
bummed out where I see the future going
and left me unmotivated kill my
Discipline Do you have same concern
getting automated out not at all ignore
the
shells when RL becomes completely
autonomous my brother nobody is doing RL
I am the only one actually doing this
[ __ ] [ __ ] nobody else is doing this
everybody else is busy thinking language
models are going to like solve cancer
and save the
world
like not at
all I'm more annoyed about the language
model shells like diverting 99% of
funding and interest away from all the
other areas of AI than I am about
anything else but uh
no this here is this is we're building
the tech of the future right
here so this is the thing that happens a
lot with carbs that I do not understand
currently we're going to have to spend
some time doing
some some thinking about this cuz by All
rights they should not be learning
anything the value function loss is
completely broken
recent piver
3.13 so will it be much faster in
performance now not really the only
thing that it'll do is it'll let you use
threads in
python as far as I can tell um it really
doesn't affect anything I'm doing with
puffer at all because I have optimized
multiprocessing with puffer which is
already going to be like that's going to
be faster
anyways so I basically like yeah it was
hard for me to build the stuff that I
built because of uh partially because of
not having uh no Gill stuff but like I
have it fast now and the next step of
performance
is probably going to be rewriting
components in like C it's not going to
be like doing python threads instead of
python
processes
yeah I've been shifting towards more low
lower level stuff lately and I've
actually really been enjoying it
so
[Music]
15 it's like
5x no
where is the thing that's like I think
it's the value function clip or whatever
cool what was there a wall clock on
this 30 minutes wall
oh and if I've learned anything I should
post the entire uh the entire
picture oh I missed a thing when does RL
become completely aut oh no
when no I didn't miss that
okay RL is not becoming completely
autonomous anytime soon I would very
much like it to be mind
you because then I would have solved
well provided I do it then uh I will
have solved the problems and I will be
able to do other
the trick is to not drink the Kool-Aid
too hard you have to drink enough
Kool-Aid that you like are excited to do
work on stuff in the morning but uh not
enough that you know you're like being
like you're doing insane
things we're going to do some like dumb
photo like this hold on
let's Poe this one
[Laughter]
let's Poe
this you got to have some fun with this
stuff
though you can't see the good run
[ __ ] stupid
cuz the stupid plot just keeps cropping
it all right I do that
again okay this is a waste of time but
hold
on this gets increasingly stupid the
longer I spend on it is the annoying
thing right
this hold
on let me let me just finish do the
stupid
thing okay put this down
here down here
here we take
photo there you can see it
perfect whatever good
enough let me go back to the chat hold
on fix
this there
cool a funny
picture we'll see if Twitter gets a kick
out of that
that
also all the fun stuff I'm working on
here is uh it's all free in open
source it's all right here on the GitHub
if you want to help me out for free star
the repo be the
puffer that is all let's go back to real
work and not screwing
around so
we did now we've
done we've done full sweeps on breakout
beam Rider and pong I
believe it keeps finding these
crazy crazy
settings I bet you we can end up doing
better than this as well if we make some
fixes um but for now I think we should
just pick another environment
trying to think what other ones people
care about
um we were going to just do the whole
Atari 7
right let's try Space Invaders that's
supposed to be a hard one right Space
Invaders is like a hard Atari M or I
mean it's Atari but like a relatively
hard Atari
M would be fun to do RL on multiple PL
agents playing
this multi that's asteroids
button what the heck is the fire button
space doesn't
work does this thing work there's no
fire Button as far as I can
tell physics on this feel good
but so um I I don't not this version
maybe it's just survival so not this
version there is an Atari Asteroids game
that we could Port
um that would be
reasonable I think that we should do the
original Atari 7 M's first
though so for reference like if you want
to contribute stuff to puffer we have
two people one is doing uh just like
people from this stream one is doing
high performance breakout another is
doing high performance pong the idea is
that we can have like a subset of the
Atari M that run at a million FPS so we
can have Ultra fast training on them um
the original seven in the Atari paper
would be probably the best ones to start
with so I think like Space Invaders
Enduro beam Rider cubert sequest I think
those are the ones we're missing for now
stuff like asteroids would probably be
after
yeah so where did our term go we're
going to start a
run
[Music]
uh buffer puffer box one
okay so here was the sweep for beam
Rider and it's as easy
as
Invaders now this should run us
a 500 run sweep it'll take another three
days uh but we will start getting
results back by the end of stream
in the meantime we can see we can check
on this it's still
running has not hung or crashed or
anything like
right three jobs
in
cool found Space
Invaders um this is not remotely space
invaded
ERS this is like not remotely Space
Invaders is the
thing here this is like based on Space
let me show you actual Space Invaders
because we can do that because puffer
lib um where is
this is where I thought if any of my
viewers were Zoomers I'd make an Among
Us joke
oh I have it right
here okay this is actual Space Invaders
you see they like they get closer to you
as you play
more and now because they I let them get
too close I think they broke my Shields
thing and then I
lose because they got to me there you
go was RB space invader is your
inspiration for snake web assembly no
but it is built in RB rayb in general is
like my favorite library
ever I didn't know that that I did not
know that that little game existed like
that little demo the thing is mine are
written
differently so the typical way you write
games is more
like the UI is more interleaved with the
state
simulation um the way that Sims work for
puffer is the Sim is Standalone you can
run it completely without rbra rendering
and then the rendering is there to be
able to visualize
it the code for snake uh the snake Sim
is online though it's about 500 lines of
c and the only reason it's that long is
because it's like this ultra high
performance Sim that supports any number
of different options you can run like
parallel snake Ms and stuff
in about an hour the agent that we're
current training currently training will
probably be better than me at Space
Invaders
we had some graphical stuff we were
working on to make the game look like
more
interesting it's in
so I think last we left this we had this
new Shader but it's like not working
obviously
glsl if I rename this to glsl will I be
able
um whatever we'll just not have syntax
highlighting that's obnoxious as hell
though
if I put a minus here what
happens
opposite so is it just scaling that's
wrong
here oh yeah it's just scaling that's
wrong here you can see that like this
gets farther
away there's like a factor of two I
think that's like wrong
it what is the best mathematical
framework what do you mean mathematical
framework
I know what you mean by mathematical
po relatively simple algorithm staple
since it came out in 2017 solves do
has been used on a ton of
problems how do you stay so productive
in a dark place right now best of luck
man
um one thing that I had to do in the
past year is a bit personal but one of
the things that I had to do in the past
year was I realized that you can either
be exhausted or depressed and uh the
former is way better so uh inedibly
intense physical physical exercise has
been a absolutely great go-to for me so
since I have run two marathons in a 50k
this year while doing um powerlifting at
least upper body power lifts uh so bench
and I guess overhead press not
technically but whatever like five days
a week so I I probably spend on average
when I'm not like recovering from
something
major I probably
spend like 15 plus hours a week training
did you get a green screen
yep takes up the whole room intensive
physical exercise yep that's honestly my
best
recommendation it would really help a
ton of people and it also happens to be
be one of the best investments you can
possibly make on your time because not
only does it help you mentally it also
you get you know way way better physical
health as
well I mean people don't want to do it
but it's like there's really no
substitute I posted an
article if you want to see some of the
stuff that went into the latest thing I
did this was like a big goal for me for
a while
and then I'll go back to Dev guys
because this is a Dev stream but I will
uh I mean the reason I posted this on
Twitter when I I pretty much exclusively
post RL stuff is because this was
something that was just so beneficial to
me personally was just like the training
for something
hard there you
go so I did like a two-month training
block this summer uh got up to 53 miles
a week at the peak and then yeah 50k and
I have like the whole training process
for this this is like already starting
from a pretty Advanced point but it's
much easier when you start out you don't
even have to be this dialed
in so yeah there you
go best of luck
yeah I uh I wish you luck I was in a
pretty [ __ ] rough place at the start
of the year I had some personal stuff
happen
um yeah it's it's helped a lot
just doing some push-ups and
stretching that helps a bit I it for me
it's not enough it's really not
enough and the body can take a lot like
the body can really take a lot
um in the last two month training block
I got I went up I built mileage from 35
or so to 53 miles a week to prepare for
the 50k I built elevation from Flat
training I built elevation up
to probably like a mile at least a mile
up a week a mile of elevation per week
and uh I also put 10 lbs on the bench
and overhead
press training 11 times a week
yeah also Twitter is absolutely just the
worst thing possible like mentally it's
just like social media is absolute
cancer I really wish I didn't have to
use it but the
thing the thing is that it's just so
useful
professionally like Twitter replaces
having to do marketing traditional
marketing I don't want to have to do
traditional marketing
right but yeah try to not if you
can as little as you can
[ __ ] the thing is like there's no way at
least for me there's just no way around
it at this point I never used it growing
up or anything but
like this is a sizable portion of the
total RL audience the biggest accounts
in RL are like 15K maybe so this is like
a sizable portion of the RL audience and
like it literally replaces traditional
Outreach and advertising and stuff and
between this and the stream and
everything and just like the amount of
exposure it's given me to puffer lib
like these results do not lie right this
is the project this is when I started
working on it full
time
so it's useful but you have to not you
have to like stop scrolling very
soon like you post your thing get
who
me about
what oh I if you are going to use
Twitter I suggest exclusively using it
for
work don't follow all the political
stuff and it's still bad even then
the other thing I know for me personally
is I am not allowed to download an MMO
if I download an MMO like there goes the
next six
months I'm not allowed to do that I
allow myself to play some like casual
things particularly like I'll
occasionally play things things where I
go hm that would be interesting to make
a research and that of but I don't let
myself get sucked in to something like
really time crunchy because it's just
not
good
RuneScape dude you want to see RuneScape
sucking you into stuff hold
on I shouldn't even open this page but I
know I'm not going to download it so
hold
okay 418 raids 39 challenge modes
freaking 300 KC
to Hard Mode T like the [ __ ] is this
right that's getting got good by
RuneScape
[Laughter]
had just stop that
bit I think OverWatch was even worse cuz
that game would just make me mad I would
it's like not even fun at some point
you're just being
mad sorry to using a bunch of WSL and
Vim I feel mad productive for no
reason the trick is to not spend all
your time customizing config files and
dumb [ __ ] right
it Ultima Online was that for
me I actually want to look more into
Ultima because neural MMO was my main
thing right all my research ideas did
come out of MMOs that is true um now
whether I needed to play 6,000 hours of
MMOs in order to get those research
ideas that is a different story
but yeah I do
find there's a bit of a balance because
like all my ideas come out of games they
all do all of them and very often when I
have something wrong it's very rarely
that I have something in RL wrong it's
very often that I have a
misunderstanding about games so
yeah virtual economy stuff oh man I have
another project that's basically ready
to release that's as large as this MOA I
just have to like polish there's so much
stuff I need to polish up but there's
going to be cool stuff soon
yep I have better procedural gen stuff
coming out soon as
well I saw the track Mania RL thing that
looked
interesting great talking to you improve
on physical that's good thank you yeah I
hope it helps man I hope it
helps modern era is just so [ __ ] with
people mentally because we've got like
all this garbage constantly being fed on
like social media and stuff and like a
lot of the tech jobs these days feel
completely meaningless because like it's
just giant giant machine with [ __ ]
engineering all around and no real
objectives or anything like yeah people
are going to go nuts under that of
course and then you add personal [ __ ] on
top of that is
[ __ ] did you ever have a elak code
grind phase nope never done leak
code I'd probably fail a junior
engineering interview for Google and I
don't really care because
like I mean look at the stuff I build
right that's just more about the
interviews than it says about
me if I were in a spot where I had to
get a job immediately then yeah I'd have
to probably well maybe not because I do
research but if I had to get an Eng like
a straight engineering job then yeah you
kind of have to but it's
like if you can avoid it I say avoid it
it's a waste of
time that doesn't mean don't learn
algorithms and data structures do learn
algorithms and data structures you don't
have to be able to like memorize a
basically fixed set of applications of
algorithms and data structures and
contrive settings and spend months doing
say folks on here I just every time I
see the YouTube view count add a de spot
I I like to remind
folks all of my work is free it's right
here all the stuff you see Cod me coding
on uh if you want to support this for
free star the repo it helps me a
ton let me see if I can actually fix
this while I've been chatting
something's wrong with these conversions
isn't
it it feels like it's off by a factor of
two but the tile size
is I don't
know how would you apply RL to an
engineering
field data problem or an algo problem
definitely not an algo problem it's a
data and infrastructure problem I would
say you need lots of data you need fast
Sims and you need a really good Tech
stack which is what I'm building with
puffer like data structure and
algorithms kind of getting insane
memorizing patterns like they were
theorems yeah it's dumb don't do
that
like yeah just don't do that
don't do
that every so often I'll do an like I'll
do a kind of a cool algorithm thing but
it's generally like some variant of a
common search algorithm
or some fancy thing of caching
or like some trick with like uh arrays
it's like there's a pretty small
Playbook that comes up often
so I'm assuming this camera is scaled
wrong somehow
because hold on is it the camera that
scaled wrong what if I do
this maybe it's not the
like and I mean it's like I see so many
people fall prey to this right where
it's
like it's just it's so common it's like
you know you do all this work and then
you know people grind the hell out of
whatever to like get the like the Fang
job or whatever and then they're doing
like soulless meaningless work where
like they're not shipping stuff they're
working at like a tenth of their mental
capacity and they're making great money
but they're miserable and then
everyone's like well what are you
complaining about you're making 500k
you're making 800k you're making like
crazy money it's like well I'm doing
meaningless [ __ ] work right
and it's not even like yeah I'm building
a wall or something it's like something
that has like it's not
intrinsically fulfilling
whatsoever so much harder to do your own
thing though right CU then you're like
everything's on
you but hey it's worth trying if you
can I tell if these towels are the right
size if
you were to make an open source
contribution to a wellknown
database I don't know what you mean make
a contribution to a
database do you mean to like a
well-known open source project or to
like a I don't know what you mean quite
there
these Tils look like they're the right
size to
me am I wrong or these tiles the wrong
size open source
project well you just you find
well don't know how to read the
right like you generally provided you
know what you're doing right you look
for something that is an interesting
project that doesn't have like crazy
contributor guidelines where you have to
check a bajillion boxes to do
anything you can look at like what some
of the people have done around here with
puffer I have two people that were just
like hey I want to make uh I want to
make like some environments to like for
puffer um that people could use like
what should I do and I said I don't know
maybe you could do like do like breakout
but do it like really fast here look at
this envro and look at how I made it
really fast and then do breakout but
make it really
fast hi Harry close to sale
are these tiles the right
size hold
on happy to help well I technically I
haven't really opened puffer to business
yet it's going to be after the next
video launches after the next video
launches basically I'm going to use that
as the excuse to say okay puffer is
officially open and you know we sell
support contracts we s sell support
services around puffer and around RL
and hopefully that'll just give us you
know a little bit of Revenue to do uh to
do some fun stuff with that's the
Hope where's my I need my Twitter here
so that I can find where is
it easy value prop if the tech makes
people excited it makes some for sure
let me find my where's the screenshot of
the puffer
MOBA I need to compare it the old
version I could just recompile it
but I think I can find the old version
okay here
these tiles are the right size they're
the same size here as
there yeah so then
why it's got to be the camera scaling
then yeah it's got to be the camera
scaling did you already start doing RL
stuff during your undergrad I started
neural MMO in
undergrad yeah neural MMO started the
summer of my sophomore year I spent
seven plus years on that
offset camera
Target main R Shader main C
Shader I think this is the issue
I think this is supposed to be
the there's a little issue with the
offset right
so the offset's not perfectly lined
up but this is what the map looks like
let's fix the animation on this real
quick
what
um well that ain't
you have to be a Game Dev and RL Dev
yeah
game dev's fun
though I'm getting better too I think
there is a decent chance that I will
eventually get bored and W to Port this
whole thing to
see we'll just we'll see about
that but I think I should do other stuff
first
used Unity 3D a lot it's good original
version of uh neural MMO I had a client
in unity 3D he had some cool Tech in
it any Rex if I want to get back into
just do it start writing
code let's say you have writing agents
you apply
rl2 what would be the backbone of the
reward function
objectiv is usually less usually goal
oriented and less
open-ended so what I generally do is and
this is a very recent technique I pick
like five things that I think are
associated with performance so in this
game I picked like uh XP gained like
distance to the enemy Tower or whatever
I got like uh deaths and like towers
destroyed like I just picked some and
then I use the hyper parameter tuning uh
algorithm to just balance all the
weights so I don't have to mess around
with the reward weightings so I'm only
designing what goes into the reward
function I'm not designing how much each
thing goes into
it that's been very
successful you have to have fast Sims
though which is one of the things that
I'm going to be doing for companies with
puffer I'm helping them out with
that e
did you see factorio is there an RL
project on facto I saw somebody was
doing language models I didn't
see is this it no this is three years
ago
oh this is
Stone I know
Stone I'm assuming this isn't
it GPT yeah I don't care about GPT on
stuff like that I really
don't I think it's the wrong approach
it's the right approach for part parts
of it but like end to end GPT is not the
right approach
I saw on Twitter as well I think it was
GPT though really not
cracked like language model rappers are
like not that hard at
all you should see the info that goes
into the RL
stuff the problem with the language
model rappers is that the things they
can't actually learn they can't learn by
playing the Sim more and it's just
really freaking heavy their models are a
thousand plus times the size of the RL
models that's the thing Harry right
there it's like the models are like RL I
can train a 1 million parameter model
and you're using a language model you
have 100 billion parameter model right
in RL I can chug down a terabyte of data
for training in an hour uh if you're
using a language model you chug down a
terabyte of data if you have millions of
dollars
right yeah it's like Mega Overkill and
like it's too clunky to actually use for
any of this stuff
right for reference here
like I'm able to this project right here
this chugs a terabyte of data per hour
per
GPU isn't that nutty to think about
terabyte of data per hour per
GPU no you well I mean it's interesting
to see what language models can do
but I'm very very bearish on just like
oh yeah we're going to solve everything
with language models
I mean you can see by what I'm doing I'm
taking the counter bet what are your
thoughts on dreamer V3 oh boy
um yeah that paper
is aggressively bad science um you know
what why don't I just summarize my
thoughts uh let me just summarize my
thoughts on the dreamer V3 paper with my
own nups paper there you
go in which we burn 10,800 hour uh
10,800 hours to find out that a lot of
the stuff in that paper doesn't really
work that paper was actually a pretty
formative experience for me at this
point no matter who is the author on
papers unless it's somebody that I
personally trust to do good science
I assume all RL research is wrong until
proven
otherwise bottlenecks du to
documentation in oil and gas it's
open-ended problem has different
objectives my friend in the field wants
to apply RL to
it so I mean that's the type of thing
that I'm going to be doing with puffer
right is um I'm going to be talking to
people in Industries like this who are
looking at applying RL to a problem
I will tell them whether or not they
should apply RL to the problem right and
if they actually have a problem that I
think RL is suited I will help them set
it up and help them with you know
features for puffer and such that would
be required to help make it easier to
solve that's basically my plan though
Tyler is um to help out in situations
like this a pretty reasonable cost as
well and
um use the uh the revenue from that to
bootstrap puffer so that I can run a
little industry RL lab in which we just
do lots of work on reinforcement
learning we make lots of good tools we
open source all this stuff um and then
the value prop to people is just you
know hey this is a really hard field so
you want the expertise and the extra you
know the extra custom stuff and you pay
for that
what we are doing for clients people
want to do it but don't know how
yeah it's
hard let me
see who's on
this don't know any of these
people 2021
so this is
cool uh the thing that will kill this
the thing that will kill this type of
work is the game being too
slow I know the factorio dev are really
performance-minded so maybe if you got
raw access to the Sim do they have uh do
they have throughput in here if they say
how fast the Sim runs I can tell you if
it's if it will
work if you know how fast the Sim is I
can tell you if it'll make any sense
the only
so the only number that I need is I need
to
know here all I need to know is if
you're just purely running the
simulation and not rendering it how much
faster than real time can you run it
like like what factor of real time can
you run it if I know that I can tell you
if it'll work
and I'm assuming it's on per CPU core as
well uh if the game is multi if the game
is multi-threaded which it probably is I
need to know that as well I generally
want to know single core performance
speed up over real
time for reference with all the stuff
that I'm making that factor is
like the factor is like 10,000 minimum
and it's usually a lot faster than
that you can get by with like a
th000 but it's nice to just like really
fast Sims make stuff
easy things get hard when your sim is
slow they'll get easier in the future
but like for where RL is right now you
want fast Sims
time why does
time uniform float
time fragment input
oh I'm I'm
dumb right
loading it says it's loading but it's
not actually
fragment
Shader says it's compiled successfully
get Shader
location
time do and
code
right Shader time
pointer that
time I have to do like
float I don't think I should have to
right
not
particularly though it's not exactly um
it's not exactly private who and where I
am I'm in Pao Alto I meet up with people
all the time
well presumably somewhere leaks it like
restream leaks it or like twitch or
something leaks
other this is quite weird that
this let me just check something
this is very weird to me that this does
not
sure what's happening here I don't
not sure what's happening here I don't see the Shader is not showing up
okay what if I do zero here does this
change
it okay look if I do zero
whoops if I do zero I get
this to show up
specifically does it have to be a numpy
float 32
oh wait is this an
integer I might just be
okay let's try numpy random Rand does
this do
flitter I guess it just doesn't like
time. time for some reason
big
number oh it's probably
um yeah hold on
maybe this does it we just need it to
not be a giant crazy
this is pretty cool looking right we can
Jazz this up a little bit more
but it's a decent little
start now all we have to do is fix the
camera
offset so let's see can we figure
let's see if I can figure it out based
on the
um so hold on this big curve is up there
and this like curve of stuff is over
here and then this one is here
so
like oh are we up
here I think we're up there
right maybe
not no we're right
here so somehow we're over
here instead of all the way down here
looks like a factor of two thing
again with the scaling potentially
I'm trying to think how I'm scaling this
wrong
right I'm trying to think how I'm
scaling this
on but you see like if I do
this this no longer matches
is the scaling is
weird so it says according to this 256
is the correct scale factor but does
that make
no if you're
at
the thing is I think it is 128 and
something else is
wrong it doesn't make
sense how's this actually being used
the thing that's happening at the moment
is the map has so there's a texture map
basically right that's allowed to be
whatever resolution it's currently 256
by
256 um the map itself is only 128 by
files so I have to be tracking the
camera
offset camera
y am I messing up the glsl coordinate
system
down I swear if the map is just upside
down
does that mean hold on maybe it's still
though it's
it this puts me
near this
here still wrong
either of these are wrong and they don't
look like they're off by a flip
either they look like they're off by a
factor of
here okay so this actually puts me
near very near the correct
wrong that's interesting how is that
possible I have something in my head
that's broken with the transforms
yes okay this is it it's just off by a
half of a screen
this is
it so
okay perfect so it repeats over there
but ignore that
is this off by
one it might be off by one oh yeah cuz
the map is not perfectly that's fine
though
Okay cool
so now what we
do is we get to make it look nice
we're going to do uh a twotone
map 6
24 I think it's just
24 66
work build
probably a
semicolon I think I forgot this bracket
right well that's cool but not what we
were going for
right oh here it
is I saw it and then I I died hold
on it's up
top yep here's the
Formula is just X greater than y right
isn't it just X greater than y
simple and then it'll just be in the
wrong order
first of all we do this is less
than and then the other
one this is
cyan then this one
here it's red
it this should be down the river as
well is really coming together
yeah I figured that just adding like a
little bit of a Shader would make it
look way
cooler I think I want it to I don't want
it to Glow quite like this I think I
want to change the glow just a little
bit
0.75
plus I think it's
.125 right and
subtle what do you think is that too
subtle the glow
effect or is it
good now obviously this line down the
center is really
dumb so we should probably blend it
instead of having it be like
this we should do like a
blend but the thing is you can't just do
um you can't do a cyan to red blend can
you cuz won't it go
plus no wait you can it'll go through
Gray
you can't do blue plus red I think you
can blend San into red it'll go through
gray in the
middle so let's figure out how to do
this is there a SL star in
okay so we're going to do what I'm going
to try to do is I'm going to lurp these
together so this is the difference in
text chords
um so
0.1 we have to clip
it is there clip
okay we're going to have to clean this
up so
much but like I don't care for today if
we can get this thing to work it's going
to be so freaking
cool okay so there's the output
color and then
here it's going to
see well this is not what was expected
but uh
actually do we get a blend Zone oh look
look look we do actually get the blend
Zone you
see we get the blend Zone
perfect so now we just have to figure
out why we went through um magenta
instead of
red but that's
sweet look how much that adds to the
project actually isn't that
nuts that adds like so much to the
project just with like this one little
silly Shader thing okay this was not a
waste of time I'm actually happy I did
this I was getting mad at my yesterday
for like wasting time on stupid [ __ ] but
this is actually really
cool
so here's the Border
color and we forgot alur C here
of course we're on the wrong side
here so it's this is lurp
red and this is lurp
Cyan are you a radiant puff or a dire
puff
stylish look at this okay now it goes
through black in the middle which is a
problem shouldn't go through
black yeah fog of War you just don't see
anything ah this is cool this is really
cool
shaders
shaders here guys I'm going to tell you
a fun little story real quick
um so here's the original neural MMO I
did at open AI right uh you see this
this environment here you see this whole
map this whole map is one
Shader including the geometry there's
not actually a geometry file like the
Shader is making these stick up and the
water stick down and all of
that yeah they replace the nice gift
that we had with a static image which is
a little
annoying oh here there's an
overhead yeah there you go
beam
[Music]
change black pixels to
Canan it's this one isn't
pixels why is that going through
black I thought would I would think it
would be going through
gray hold
on I really should spec to the assassin
class so I have the faster move speed to
get here but it's okay
here we can clearly see everything goes
through black right
here is it just me or we getting Shader
lines
I can kind of see like Shader
lines that's no big deal let me figure
out why we're going through
black right because I did it this way I
Didn't Do It
this there we go now it goes through
Gray
I don't like it going through gray like
this I know what I was expecting but
like
right this is where you ask chat GPT not
the other stuff
you ask at dumb stuff where you don't
know because you're dumb not because you
have a hard problem that you can't
figure
work that is not what I freaking wanted
what the
[ __ ] I did not know HSV was a freaking
acronym for
herpes my bad guys
space well I didn't see what was on
there hopefully there's nothing that got
me banned on Twitch
what's like the smooth blend is it a
multiplicative
blend doesn't actually rayon have an
example on
example HSV isn't the solution it'll
just go through a different color unless
they're
adjacent it'll go through like magenta
I'm pretty sure
where's the freaking this
one yeah so here this is going through
magenta isn't
it you can see the magenta
[ __ ] am I trying to do something that's
not possible being dumb or is this a
thing
end of the Hue
Spectrum wait are they on opposite ends
being very careful to type color space
this
time they're not on opposite you go
through magenta
my brain actually can't picture what I'm
going for
right they're on like opposite
sides so I think you go through Gray
I don't like I don't really like going
through Magenta in the middle
you see so this is RGB color space it
goes through
let me see if what I'm asking for is
even
possible I'm trying to picture in my
head like
it's
just these two look virtually the
quick twitch has got to do something
about
that yeah that's not what I wanted
that's not what I wanted at
all uh I guess we go through
magenta wasn't there something weird
that happened like I just did this or
something and it actually
weird okay okay so what is happening
here that makes it look
better nothing right it's just it's
still going through
gray this is just less
isn't oh it's going
through is it going through blue
here SC let's see what happens if we go
through magenta
border color
why do you want two
contrasting green with a darker Grant
works
fine I wanted to have there be like I
figured it would be a cool way to have
the two shade like just to have like the
two sides have distinctly different
colors be a cool application of the
shaders
hey
bet is it what are we at oh
yeah I suppose it is uh I'm currently
trying to figure out this lurp
here I'll show
you I guess it's I'm doing something
visually interesting at the
moment it is a great time to Star Puffer
lib all my work is open source Go Star
the puffer helps me out a
ton so we have these nice
shaders and I'm trying to figure out how
I want to
lur this in the center go away
puff cuz I don't like how it looks in
the center right
now yeah it's pretty cool right but I
need to figure out
it's gray the center is going through
the gray color right now which is
dumb you really like cyan yeah
to get out your color wheel to find out
what the transition color should
be well I I need to figure out what
the the math is here
right I'm sure this is something
incredibly
basic I'm going from cyan to red and I
want something in the middle that looks
reasonable it could be just
magenta which I could do by converting
to
HSV I'm hoping there's a simpler way of
doing it
like I'm sure this will do something
totally different
right you want it in RGB I don't know
what I want
honestly this is kind of funky
looking I don't like this as much this
is too many
colors I do want to know what the
transition looks like here
want this color for
longer that it
I don't know if this clamps or wraps
around we'll
seems cuz you want full sign in the
middle
right you want full s in the is this
what it
the I don't know what the hell this is
but I think it's good it goes from cyan
to like blue on
the the graphic it goes from cyan to
blue and then it goes through this nice
smooth transition in the middle and then
it goes here it's like more red to more
magenta I
guess I think this is good people can
submit tweaks to this if they want but I
think this is good for
Shader is a mess but it
works
so we have to fix a couple small things
with this I
believe cuz it's like one tile off or
whatever
but for now
like
here we can just play with it a little
bit
right so you've got your
puffer start on this
side it's like one tile off remember
whatever but like there we
go uh this is me getting stuck here
one we get level
two we kill
one and then we go through the
midsection
here we drop uh an
AOE to push the
wave we have to wait for our cool down
down because we want our another
AOE okay we helped our wave
out uh we for some reason our wave still
lost that's a little
weird but then we have river river is
slightly
misaligned so we have a few small things
to
fix but
yeah generally looks pretty good
stuff mini map
yeah could use a mini
map the uh the thing is the AI doesn't
get a mini map at the moment
so I actually kind of like the cyan to
Blue like this is kind of
the
player where do I draw all the
texts the transition isn't notice what
do you mean the transition isn't
noticeable
you it's like very it has like a subtle
animation on it
yeah I'll show you hold on okay so there
you go
there's the text color
changed um so if you just stand
yeah then the dire puff should have red
text
right look at this guy
trying to get
me uh can I glitch past the
tower yep okay there you
go
cool terrain is glowing yeah
bit okay
actually
works
playable very
nice I'm going to use a restroom real
quick and then uh we're going to maybe
clean this up maybe do a few other
things check on the experiments maybe
grab some actual rld policies we'll
see haven't looked closely at the OBS I
assume there isn't a pixel visual OBS
nope this is just for fun and to clean
the game up make it look a little
better I'll be right back though and
then we will uh we'll proceed from here
be right back
walk started doing the lower body
powerlift training since the 50k and
it's going to take some time to get used
to again
so we should probably clean up this glsl
because it's like disgusting
right I think we should check the
experiments first though just to make
sure that we're
actually not stuck which we're
not let's take a look at the
carbs the carbs sweep
Julian
silly
okay we've got
policies we got some
policies I don't think we've locked into
anything amazing yet um the way carbs
work is it's going to
do have as many hyper parameters as you
have have it's going to do that many
random trials so probably most of these
if not all of them are still random and
then carbs will pick up after
this strong gamma
correlation
um it's probably like yes but the thing
is that's
obvious that's the discount
Factor it'll figure that
out what do we have for like this
okay weird policy
loss know whatever it'll run we'll get
some better
policies I think technically we still
have uh the old one that we can use in
the meantime for testing right
let me spec into assassin real quick
because it's just like so much easier to
get around uh to get around the
map which I think is one
right yeah assassin is one so we'll spec
into
assassin uh eval model path
cool this is why you spec to Assassin
because you can very quickly get to the
fights you can AOE stuff you can attack
some things and then you can
leave this guy's going to follow but
he'll
die and there you go there's the impact
of the
fight um can I I don't think I Mana to
cue this
one we added some icons this is their
assassin he's about to get merked though
there you
go this is actually a playable game it
needs some animations and
stuff let me get a screenshot for our
our artist
friend because we had somebody drop by
the
stream who was interested in doing some
art for
stuff and I think I forgot to reply to
him
there render human via remote is slow
yeah of course it is
so let me think what what we can do to
really make this thing
um make this thing pop
right the lack of animation is just
rough animations aren't super easy to do
y so this is what we've got I'm
currently speced into assassin which
means I have this move buff so I can get
to this first wave fight
faster I've got this AOE which I'm going
to wait a second to drop I drop the AOE
here I drop my nuke I help them clean up
a little bit
and then we should get a little bit of
damage on
Tower yeah we get some damage on
Tower I'm low on Mana so we fall back
wait for
team we
attack we take him
out wait on
anything okay I can take one out
here
feedback so we took a tower so like
stuff is going on we just took a
tower I just killed
one I'm low on Mana is he going to get
me nope he's not smart enough we do the
AOE yeah I know you're not seeing
anything you you have to like look at
their health bars to see anything like
here the one that you can see is I'll
show you as soon as I have Mana for
it cuz you'll see me jump to the
Target there so you see I like jump to
Target and it chunks them for a ton of
damage but like other than that there's
no animation on
stuff the dash is cool
right like
there I would like to know how I took
damage from across the map that's
probably a
bug I'm getting there
wait what are you
doing have you just been like making
stuff for
this I have I think I told you right
that like I have the like the animation
for the puffer that you see on the
screen and like the overlay but probably
it needs like some processing but that's
just like the idle and move stuff I
don't have more than just like swim and
puff
up and and die
here wait we can contribute dude this is
all open source yeah of course you
can we have multiple people contributing
like enes and cool stuff to these
projects already
yeah like this this whole code is online
and it's like it's updated online is
every time I like every time you see me
push a commit that's immediately public
on the dev
Branch this is true of all of my work
for the past roughly 10
years so the thing is this is actually
already fun to play if you know if you
understand what the hell is going on it
will be fun to play more generally as
soon as we can actually tell what's
going on without having to like know
under the
hood carry burst support
tank oh is that what it
puffers those are freaking cool
characters
though it's a puffer
tank wait I'm confused
you sent
me I see five colored icons I see like a
knight and they look really good but
wait what are
they puffer
tank wait
using it's a
join the
Discord what Discord did you just link
him
bat the puffer one is just discord.gg
puffer oh you don't need to use the
shitty links it's literally discord.gg
puffer I pay good money for that URL
Carri
clam
oh
I okay I see wait that's actually
that I just didn't no they're really
cool I just didn't realize you were
replacing the like the actual puffer
characters I almost yo
actually uh I don't know it's up to him
whether I can show these on
screen
um I do actually really want to use
these it's not wrong to replace the
puffer characters
yeah I definitely want to use
those for readability Factor yeah yeah
yeah okay you can show it
okay so these look freaking
Nathan was the guy who was going to do
the other end
right so there's another project that I
know would fit these for sure we might
be I think they might fit this project
but there's another one coming up that
these definitely fit um wait were you he
with that conversation with uh with
Nathan about the uh the like the
Tactical turn-based EnV these fit like
freaking perfect with
that these are sweet
though can we get these into
here N I just came back oh no this was
yesterday or two days ago so here I'll
show you the other thing that we were
doing do you know like Fire
Emblem it's like here it's like a
tactical turn base right
so there was so kind of based on this
but actually there's more they're like
way more interesting and complex
versions of these combat systems there's
this well-known MMO let me hope I'm not
not getting banned for
this cuz it has freaking French artwork
and the French people are very horny um
let me see where's the combat
system the combat to this is really
unique okay like you can see it's like
this grid based system with like ranges
and tiles and
such it also has a very strong class
system and this is like somewhere where
this like that fits
perfect doofus is good one oh you
already know the game
okay
yeah so that absolutely fits
there
100% people have tried to do stuff like
this before they call it an RTS but it's
not really an RTS
like Costa did one of
these this is micro
RTS so he did something like this
you can see that there's like there no
real Graphics to this
right we could do like a a combat uh we
could do more like the original system
where it's like teamv team instead of
resource build or we could do something
like this not
sure uh there's
ms but nobody's actually really made
like decent graphics for anything like
this so it's really hard to tell what's
going on here's like a 2d Sprite thing
right I guess he kind of grabbed some
stuff for
this but you know we could do we could
do something substantially more
all right I'll hold off on the uh the
puffer animation stuff for now then
because you might be doing stuff uh let
me think what else I can
[Applause]
do I could try to
do it's actually hard for me to even do
like spell effects because of the way
the thing is
coded link any specific Styles you have
in mind going
forward
yeah so I
guess it's hard to say though the thing
is like cuz I default when I don't have
artwork right I default to like flat
shaded stuff where you can just add a
couple effects and make something look
kind of cool like that's why I did this
I don't know did I show you I think I
showed the playable version to you right
were you here for
that so like I just did
this where's the animation I did like
this subtle animated effect just to give
it like a little bit of
something James o'keef I will look that
up to see whether I think that is a
favorable
comparison so I did this subtle like
animated effect here like this other
like subtle color breathe on the
walls and then I did like this smooth
transition to the red side
here so we could still like we could
totally do like the art style that you
have with this I would have to just what
I would have to do is like I'd have to
make it a little crunchier right like
the honestly the puffer I have doesn't
even fit with this either
right game juice all right yeah like
honestly even the puffer as I have it
now doesn't fit like fit with it because
it's too high it's too noisy right like
everything else is super streamlined and
then this is like noisy it's almost like
you almost would want the characters to
be geometric shapes or something with
this but that's not to say that that's a
good art style or anything right that's
just like um you know what I happen to
to
have I mean like I'm I'm kind of
attached to the meme of like yeah the
puffers have to take stars as the tower
by the way Star Puffer lib but I'm not
that attached to it right if we make we
can make something cooler I'm fine doing
that I'll just like a right on the
terrain you know puffer AI Star Puffer
or something on the map like that's
perfectly as
good watch this
that actually feels really good to
do the Assassin burst
combo scps I've heard of it okay let me
go look up the thing who is
this James o'keef
are there pixel siiz constraints for the
heroes Towers not
really biggest thing in these sorts of M
is where so much is happening you need
to know what you're hitting and Status
effect visibility is
critical yeah so
here's maybe I should just modify this a
little bit so that we
can should I just like modify stuff so
that we know where the effects are
okay I'm down with if we can can make it
look really good the puffers don't have
to be the characters I can just like put
like a puffer water mark or whatever
that's sufficient promo
do I go for like geometry War style like
where it's just like shapes that are
like glowy probably not
right this is even too much
anyways but that's like what you do when
you don't have artwork
I mean I'm thinking I could like very
easily make like five different shapes
for characters and then I could even
have them like fly around and like turn
with the
like paper cutouts of
DnD yeah so I was the the thing is right
now with the way the engine works is I
don't actually like I don't have any
information on what abilities are being
cast correctly in order to do that but I
should be able to add
that maybe that's what we should do now
so we can tell when stuff is being
hit
2.5d there's too much
effort I mean I might be able to add
like some illusion effect to it but
unless you have an idea on how to do it
easily
like the MMO was like there's so much
stuff that went into nural MMO so
there's like this one but there like
there have been so many versions like I
made this one in the
past game is just is top down or just
top view I don't know it could be
whatever right
my brain gets like I don't know why this
doesn't happen when I'm writing but when
I'm like designing visual stuff my brain
gets stuck in the creative process cuz
I'm so used to finding like what's the
best choice right so I
like I always get stuck on this type of
stuff what we should do for now though
holy hell I think we got the stream at
alltime Max so welcome everyone um it's
not really expensive bet but you have to
know what you're doing I've done it
before and I could do it a lot easier
now but it still would take some work
and I don't want to be spending an extra
two weeks on it um but here since we
have yeah the optimal art exactly right
it's dumb here so I'm going to do
something for now for the hit ranges and
stuff um but before I do since I since
we have a whole bunch of people on
here all the stuff that I'm working on
it's free it's open source it's
available right
here all the cool stuff is here
including this
environment if you want to help me out
for free star the repo helps me a
ton streaming RL RL Dev in progress most
days so here's what we're going to do
for
now we're going to figure out how to
make it so we can get hit
effects to show up and we're going to
get like a super basic Shader thing
for
that I think that's
reasonable YouTube showed me your thesis
video this morning now got your live
stream welcome yeah most people find
this from the thesis we're doing um
there will be one there will be another
high quality long form
video uh I'm going to work on it all
weekend and see how far I can get the
videos take a lot of work they take a
lot of
work I'm going to do one more long form
video um obviously I can't do like
another thesis defense but I have
another long form video in the works
it's going to be 20 to 25 maybe 30
minutes um it's going to be a bit
different I'm going to try something and
if it does well I'll make more of them
like slowly over time if it doesn't do
well I probably won't because they take
a ton of time and they take time and
effort away from Dev but um so it's like
it's almost to the point that like they
need to do quite well but if they do
I'll keep making
them cuz ultimately right like
none of the stuff I'm doing matters if I
can't get eyes on it and people like
doing stuff with it
right though sometimes the way to get
people using stuff is just Dev more
stuff right so we'll see
um let's go
to I'm trying to think
what we can
do
to I don't want to have to mark the
tiles with the AOE do I
to get
the the range of
can I just save like one extra variable
to the
I need to know your Target and I need to
know your
AOE Target PID and AOE I guess I can
save those it's kind of gross to have to
do this but I can
probably I can probably do it
yeah so here's what we're going to
do we're going to save in this struct
which is
massive in Target PID int attack
AOE all
right
where is the basic attack
function they basic attack
now so for basic attacks you set the
target
pit
and whenever you step stuff you're going
to just player
dot uh we're just going to set the
target pit to negative
1 uh this
alone should allow me to get enough data
to be able to render at least
something so
see
entity so here's your
entity you draw all your mods and now
you draw an attack
now we have to get the target position
so much freaking
code where do we get the
positions yeah this all this garbage
needs to get copied I'm going to have to
do so much work cleaning up the
rendering for
this I'm probably going to end up
importing this to c just for the
opportunity to like redo stuff
okay
so Target x equals target. last
X
okay uh I have no idea what this Auto
completed but
sure let's just assume that this is a
reasonable auto complete why not
and see if we get some sort
of uh graphic on the basic attack
so I forgot to un I forgot to initialize
the variables that's what you just saw
so not the best graphic but it's
something
nicer what do we want it to
be you can see the across the screen
attacks now
yeah I could make the basic attack a zap
like that or I could make it a
projectile let's start with a nicer just
like a nicer zap
green.
team this is going to be
you can see
okay uh the the lines are too
thin the lines are too
thin but it's like a decent first
approximation we'll obviously be able to
add shaders and stuff to all
this welcome more YouTube folks does it
have to be an aimed attack what about
click or tab targeting and having a
project
So currently targeting is just the
nearest thing for reasons um we will
change that in the future probably uh
but I can do a projectile I can do a
projectile that like heat seeks the
question is I was going to save that for
abilities um but maybe yeah it's better
to have the Autos be that as well the
nice thing about the lines is for debug
at least for now I can also see when
you're like attacking off screen meaning
that there's some
and what it goes from green to Sky
Blue let's use
this R GB yep and base
color is going to
be5 let's just do like this
maybe draw gradient line
color um so this is base color to color
and then what about the draw line
function how do I make the line thicker
is there
thickness wait line start
end float
thick draw a line
ex
okay and then all you do is you do um
positions have to be for whatever reason
it changes the
um it changes the
arguments so you do have to do like
this
looks the lines are too thick and the
circles
that X Plus TI size over
two what's X
stract I think it's entity X
it might have to be an
INT I think it's int of entity
X and then Target Y
is in of Target y times tile
is
plus plus tile size over two
let's do it all in
line oops this one's not like this okay
entity y tile size over two and then
this one is just going to
be
uh there we go
let's see how this
looks okay these are aligned it looks
like
better they're better aligned at least
what about without the
circles circles are a little weird I
like the beams I don't know if about the
circles you see there is actually a
little animation it does dull the
character you you do turn red when you
get hit as
bad I like just the beam way more okay
and then we'll do something cool for the
AOE I
think we're going to have to figure out
how to do the
aoe's I like it with the beam just the
beam more yeah I was going to use the
circle for the AOE
let me figure out how to do that real
quick that's a little
trickier
so hold
on I figured this out
we're also somewhat Limited at the
moment by um the frame
rate if I'm going to have this be 60fps
default we only get 12 frames per
here where is this
thing player. AOE
limit yeah we'll see Target pit negative
one attack AOE to
zero this is a good stream day so I'm
just going to keep I'm going to a little
bit more frequently as a result because
it
works um folks this is all open source
you can get it right
here and if you want to help me out St
the
puffer helps me a
ton back to
Dev so attack AOE needs to be set the
tricky thing is I need to figure out a
nice way of setting the PID and attack a
OE for all the different types of
attacks
I think I'm just going to set it inside
of
attack instead of setting it in basic
attack can I just set it
inside yeah
so return self.
attack
here player. Target
PID get set to the Target
PID and then all I have to do is I have
to override this inside of the uh the
AOE abilities
wanting to play with puffer more but I
don't have a good GPU do you have one
you'd recommend for RL so if you just
want to play with some stuff let me show
you how fast puffer
is this runs in your browser it'll run
on a phone it'll train it over 100,000
steps per second on a CPU that's like
more than 10 times faster than the
majority of the field working on
RL so we have a couple things that you
can actually play around with pretty
fast even the MOBA that I'm working on
will be decently fast on CPU uh more M
are coming that will be
fast uh but if you want to get a GPU
really depends on your budget you can
look at our Hardware
breakdown we have right here there's a
blog post on what I have uh these are a
bit pricey these are like four grand to
pop these desktops you can downgrade
those very substantially um my local
desktop is maybe like a little less than
half the speed of one of these and it
has a 3080
I don't even know how these are still
this expensive oh there it is 300 bucks
for yeah so I mean these are okay for
previous
gen um and then depending on what
environments you want to run you need a
good CPU if you want to run the puffer
ones the puffer ones are fast enough
that you don't need a good CPU otherwise
you'll need a good
CPU that's generally the situation
but you can already play around with
puffer with your current stuff like I
will run um I will run experiments like
on my laptop at 100K steps per second
quite often
I think all we have to do now
is player AOE attack
right this will have the side effect of
the towers doing it though oh for now
let's just put it here
uh
radius layer. Target PID equal target.
PID so now whenever we do AOE attack we
have this data
here
setup Oh wrong tab
tab still wrong
[Music]
this animation for this is going to be
very
simple so
here we have to add yet another indent
garbage garbage code but
we do fast Dev for the
AOE pack
AOE ENG go I want to see if I can make
an environment I've been building work
your research was really exciting to
find hey hopefully it's useful we have
multiple people building and
uh that are contributing to puffer as
well I don't know if that's something
you're interested in but I do
occasionally review code and do PRS on
stream which is a ton of fun where's the
Discord if you check the dev Channel
this is
discord.gg puffer if you want Dev uh
discussion and stuff it's mostly quite
technical um let's see
if people would stop spamming the chat
with random stuff it would be
great where's this thing somebody posted
a really cool gift of
this where is it okay here's somebody
who's made pong but like Ultra
fast this thing is like way faster than
Atari Pong pretty much plays exactly the
same Nathan's working on this and then
here you can see Noah is working on
Ultra fast
breakout and hopefully when they finish
both of these these will both be added
to puffer as alternatives to Atari that
are just way
faster these things will train in like a
few minutes or
less hundreds of thousands of steps per
second
okay what we do
is draw a
circle is it a circle or a circle
outline
lines maybe once I get my lowlevel
foundations backgrounds in game
programming need some practice with the
details over here um maybe but before
you say that you should probably check
the code it's not that
hard this demo here let me for anybody
who's potentially interested in doing
this who has like even a moderately good
background in just general software
engineering this thing is try hard
there's absolutely no performance reason
to do this I rewrote this in C just for
the sake of putting this online so I
could show people you can have Ultra
fast local mends much easier than this I
will show you
is again open
source
puffer
environments
ocean
snake okay ignore the C.H these are for
the web versions we don't need any of
this here's the entire source code 229
lines of syon not
C what's python look like okay well it
looks kind of like python there's a
class here maybe we declare some types
but uh what about after
this oh this just looks like Python and
uh what's this this just looks like
python um what that this looks like more
Python and more python okay we have some
types declared here and then more
Python and then that's it the whole
environment is done and this runs over
10 million steps per second
so yeah it took me a long time to figure
out how to like structure stuff to make
it fast like this but now for people
adding new M's it's not that
hard and if you do eventually want to
take the plunge into the cide for the
only for the sake of putting stuff on
the
web snake. is 47 lines uh but that's not
if we just start counting from the top
that's it
270 40 lines longer than the python
version total all this stuff is the
rendering now rendering in the neural
Nets which you can just copy
paste and yeah it's a little fancier but
it's kind of one to one the same there's
like some array math that's a little bit
annoying that I'd like to figure out a
simpler way of doing but that's about it
so this stuff does not have to be
hard this stuff does not have to be
hard first you need linear algebra then
Advanced calculus yeah
no you need that stuff if you want to be
doing if you want to be making decisions
about RL algorithms and like
understanding why where and how certain
things are applied if you're just trying
to make some Ultra fast game M that can
be useful for RL research you don't need
any of
it how often do you use AI tools for
coding I the thing that I suggest people
use I have super Maven it's just like
co-pilot but faster I use it for brain
dead auto complete so if I just do
this I get brain dead like single line
auto complete or if I have like multiple
of the same line it'll do multi-line
but I don't use it to like I don't use
it to think for
me that's generally where I draw the
line every so often I'll get desperate
and you'll see I pull up chat GPT on
stream and most more often than not it
Just wastes my
time I pretty much will only pull up
chat GPT or Claude if I'm working in a
space that I just don't know what the
hell I'm doing like when I was trying to
figure out what shaders how shaders
worked yesterday then I
did super maven's awesome though saves
typing saves a lot of
do you like this right here this is
perfect
and then I can just do n
DPX like this it just replaces you know
the really brain dead refactor stuff and
then where the the example go draw
Circle Center y center X radius
[Music]
color uh so this is going to be Target
be
see let me see if this works
we add a little
AOE integer is required
okay radius equals
int and see right here this screwed me
cuz it forgot to do uh it forgot to do
the the
casts oh did you see that when I did the
uh the AOE I got the circle
boom Oh look this is the tank you can
see the tank is applying
um I think I
didn't tile size it should be tile size
not tile size over two
so now we can
see we can see aoe's and actually we saw
a tank
farming which is pretty
cool yeah that right there is the tank
farming
um huh I don't know if it's actually
targeting this the way I'd intended it
to
though potentially I could make some
graphics cuz it's not actually a uh it's
not actually a circle it's more it's
like a grid
thing so we might want to make some
changes
ring might look cool with a glowy border
I
agree you're not really going to be able
to tell though because it
um it's only there for a Split Second
I'm also going to need to draw it like
under the other agents or
this I'm trying to think if that's how I
want to do
it uh can I ask for some grad school
advice I'm complet considering applying
for something a little like what you did
if I can find a good fit I see so the
reason I did a PhD is because I had a
very specific thing that I wanted five
years to work on and I already knew my
adviser I'd already worked with him
extensively I uh I followed philli who
was my adviser from open AI he went from
there to start a
professorship um so mine was a pretty
unique
case I'm not sure if you have specific
stuff that I might be able to assist
want now I on a port top down Counter
Strike there is actually something like
that that you could do um I a little
careful I don't know how to
do I don't know how to make line of
sight checks fast you might get stuck on
performance there um but
exists and this is essentially based on
open AI project where they did stuff
like
also this is Quake capture the flag they
reskinned you can see here the original
Maps they reskinned Capture the Flag
though to make it less guns so it would
be more palatable because
Europe because
Europe uh and yeah you can see like
these types of maps so you could do a
top down type thing
um the line of sight checks would be a
little bit tricky
so the thing that you have to think
about with RL more than anything is the
observation space like what is it that
the agent is going to see and how
efficiently are you going to be able to
compute what the agent can
see that might be a hard spot to a hard
place to start I would have
to I would have to basically take a
couple hours to
like add I know take a long shower and
like think about it or something like
that I don't
know CU it's it I think it can be done
but it's going to be a little tricky to
figure out how to structure the data if
you're going to be new to these Environ
if you're brand new to the environments
you might want to start with something
that everything is like a grid
slice like you see these like tile
things here if everything is just like a
5x5 or an 11 by1 is usually a good size
grid slice then it's easy it's harder
when you have to do stuff like well the
observation is actually supposed to be a
firstperson render across the map like
this doing something like that fast is
very hard right a top- down thing yeah
you can do but then like how's it aiming
right I guess you might be able to do a
top down thing where it's just like it
can only see a certain distance in tiles
and then like it has to be turned to
face that direction in order for it to
shoot in that direction maybe something
like that but you'd have to basically
think about how to do it
yeah um I want to do let me think
I have the project been struggling how
to find an adviser recommendations in
rlm design with a focus on artificial
life uh yeah depends on your resume
um Julian Telus and Jeff cloon I would
think let me think is there anybody
else the top places I know are like
Julian's group does uh environment
design design artificial Lifey stuff uh
he's more mostly focused heavily on
games Jeff Clon does like some
open-ended interesting research stuff
everybody's more or less doing a little
bit of something or other with language
models on top of it these days outside
of me
uh Ken Stanley is not doing a
professorship otherwise i''d say him
um I what I would suggest for you if is
if you're doing this I'd go like look
through like go through the aife
conference go look at Publications that
you like and go look up those
professors yes to get into a top lab you
have to have top credentials this is
very true you have to already have
research experience you already have to
have in most cases some Publications you
have to have a track
record I had been doing research for
three years no more than three years
full-time when IID start by the time I
started my
PhD because I was like spending half of
my time in undergrad just doing
research not true of all the labs but
this is generally at the top places this
is what is required
compile your snake. new F right code and
it needs to run on the GPU Jason I think
YouTube is eating a bunch of your
messages because whenever you post stuff
like I only ever get half of
it the amount of time he spent doing
research was more than most spent on all
of
undergrad yeah that's probably
true that's probably true
I didn't work like crazy hours in
undergrad by my standards but I was I
mean I worked more than I work now it
was probably like 80
average independent research don't have
something to put on my resume for that's
hard
I mean you can check what I had and the
standards have gone up since I started
rightfully so because it's gotten easier
to do research since I started we we
didn't have any like nice tools to work
with we had to do a lot of stuff from
scratch but
uh okay like from here down was from
here down was before I started
PhD so I had this thing from from open a
I had this well this was just like a a
meme paper so ignore that I had a cool
archive paper here I had one major
publication single author and a couple
small
things that's what I
had it's not that the competition has
gone up it's that it's been it's gotten
it's not people have not just gotten way
smarter it's that the tools out there
for doing research have gotten much
better so like when I was doing research
we would spend half our time like
fighting with making autograd work
because we had like [ __ ] old versions of
tensorflow or really early beta versions
of pytorch before that it was even
harder because people were hacking in
Cafe and before that people were writing
their own Cuda code for everything so
that's
why couple tiny computational complexity
papers from undergrad if by published
you mean published in a conference then
there might be some Theory pis that are
interested but but that is not exactly
in the area of aif as
diamond can I draw a diamond instead of
a square can I draw
square I need to just draw a rectangle
outline I'm
draw very specific area of
study it's not basically impossible
it depends what you're what you want to
do
right and like what you're willing to do
you have to consider why you want to do
a PhD on the first place as well that is
a very important question not to skip
does this actually
work well forgot the thickness
parameter which can be
went into PhD without a plan it's not
the most engaging work yeah it's really
not like you have to think about this if
assuming even that you do it right out
of
undergrad you are 22 when you graduate
undergrad you're going to be 27 by the
time you finish your
PhD so that's most of your 20s well have
of your 20s really right it's half of
your
20s working on even at a top Place
working with very low funding tenth of
what you'd be making in
Industry um with almost no resources
they really don't have good equipment at
almost all places including places like
MIT uh working with external constraints
on publishing as well and a whole bunch
of other [ __ ] you have to deal with
in add in addition to
coursework so
that has to be worth it to
you that has to be worth it to you and
if it's not you're going to have a bad
time and even if it is you're still not
always going to have a good time
want to
have 30 and it would be worth it hey if
you're confident then you're good don't
let me dissuade you it's the people that
like do a PhD because they think that's
just the thing to do that it's like what
are you doing
uh
okay we don't need the
circle Plus radius that doesn't make any
sense
radius I will also say if that you have
some Financial reserves going into a PhD
uh so that you're not live literally
like living paycheck to paycheck off of
a
stipend you will have a substantially
better time but it will still be hard
so if you that's like a little bit of
full-time work a little like a few
internships something like that it will
make it substantially
better much as I can fair enough the
thing that I didn't expect was just like
the and this is specific to what I'm
working on because like I have a very
specific way of doing my work was just
like the extreme amount of resistance
that I got from entrenched like
entrenched academic seniority and like
reviewers and like just the difficulty
of publishing and the amount of time I
had to waste like trying to convince
people like try to like slot my work
into a way that people were used to
thinking it was a bunch of
stuff I'm very happy to be out of
Academia very very happy to be out of
Academia
I mean think about it as well like sure
there's no revenue for puffer yet but
I'm only making like a tenth of a
reasonable salary less than I would be
making otherwise
right not to mention that because it's a
company everything's a right
off all the company expenses at
least so in practice it's probably like
more like closer to 5% of a a salary
that's that that's the only
cost can't be worse than being a
contract data scientist probably
not probably not
these animations are like so freaking
quick as the thing and it's kind of a
limitation of the way the game is
do something similar to the terrain so
that's the tank there using its
AOE you interned at open AI before chat
jippy you get the agge to work on
LMS the hype round no not really I
thought they were going to be good but I
the RL work was always cooler to
me I mean Alec was there working on that
stuff back then he was awesome to chat
with uh I mean I spoke with a lot of the
people very often it was a very it was a
very nice
Vibe inside the Border you're making the
background brighter yeah I thought of
that um the one cool thing is like you
could be on the enemy side of the board
and bring your color over
there we're going to have to make some
changes first though
I have to make some changes
first yeah
holy pretty sure this is a stream
uh this is like a Max stream where it's
17 viewers total plus if there's anybody
on
X so uh I will take a quick moment
before I add the the new feature here
folks if you haven't starred puffer
lib this is free and open source all my
stuff is free and open source right here
if you want to help me out for free
start the repo I also post all this
stuff on X if you're on there uh so I'll
put this in chat as well and I've got
some articles on there as well there you
go Discord is puffer is puffer
Dogg as well
Vulcan isn't supported Jason I'm not
sure what you're uh you're on there but
um there's no Vulcan
here do you remember the moment got you
interested in deep learning I kind of
stumbled into it in high school to be
honest I'd already been programming for
a bit and I was like doing some science
I was like well what do I want to do
it's like well I want to do
something I wanted to do something in
software AI really seemed like the thing
and
I me I was doing research from a very
young age I was doing computer vision
research when I was 16 it was very very
bad research but I was doing
it I worked on I mean it's a little bit
of a to say I worked on this is a little
bit of a stretch given how bad the work
was at the
time but I contributed in some way at
least
to I don't know why this is at
wasu oh here it
is I don't know why Justin is fourth
author on this because I was working on
this for Justin but yeah this is
2016 I was working on this before then
actually it would have been 2014 that I
was
involved okay let's actually get this
feature implemented so first thing we
need to do is
bet you can literally it's
discord.gg puffer it's the puffer
link I paid good money for that
URL there you
URL okay um y less than zero so what
we're going to do here
is we're going to
first let's just do render entities
equals this
array and
then
render aend
PID
or hid in render entities okay so what
I've just done here is
now we do the background layer first
then we
do the render entities
entities I'm going to have to
restructure a couple things here
okay I I don't want to slow this down
because you know folks are want to see
some cool stuff I'm going to only take a
couple minutes doing this I have to
clean this up a little bit because
what's going on here um if it's not
obvious so I need to draw the the first
layer which is the background which also
has a Shader on it um oops and then I
need to draw all the care I need to draw
no I need to draw all the aoe's and all
of the uh targeting effects after that
so that they go underneath the
characters otherwise when I draw the
characters there's going to be stuff on
top of them obscuring them so I want to
put like the ground aoe's underneath the
characters so that's what we're going to
do here um and in order to do
that what we're going to do is we're
going to have to repeat a little bit of
logic I think
yeah we have to repeat a little bit of
logic
so this here goes up to the
top we can clean this up by just doing a
continue entity Target
HD1 then we do a continue
um
okay
then we get the targeting information
which is fine and then we have to do the
second pass on this Loop so let's put a
comment this is
targeting uh
overlays and then we do
here which is going to be ENT
uh
[Music]
renders and probably I forgot some
temporary variables or whatever but
hopefully this is
good and we get rid of this code we
don't need this don't need this we can
get rid of like some of these old
comments that'll tighten this up we
don't need this circle we don't need the
circle gradient we don't need this
we probably
can do like
this tighten this
up I don't know if I like this or not
yeah whatever we'll do this and
then cool this is way
tighter now let's see if this works or
if we have a few things to
fix variable entity X not affiliated
597 I need to grab uh some variables
don't I we need to recompute some stuff
where is
X oh
um yeah we
PID yeah let's see if this
works this will all get cleaned up um
you know this this will all be cleaned
up uh I'm cleaning up just just
minimally as I need to develop while I'm
doing this live
but key error
map tile what's
tile tile is just
do
wait how'd this
happen grid
YX how do you make different agents take
different actions in a multi-agent
n what do you mean the policy will pick
different actions same policy runs on
the same policy runs on different
observations picks different actions
hm something's getting rendered on top
of the entity I
interesting the goal here is to have
three different
debug this literally just a
debug where's the Shader get done here
researches in EMP
devices against autonomous
systems do you think this is a real
concern at the
moment not any more than like nanites or
any other scii
things do you believe we could control
more capable AI
like the answer to that is I don't know
and it's I don't know in a way that's
not concerning right it's like I don't
know if nanites could be dangerous right
it's like I don't know because the
threat is not like there's no
realistic depiction of said threat right
yeah now EMP devices against like
um swarms of drones
that are not like super intelligent but
are able to coordinate yeah that
probably is going to be a
thing because pretty much based on the
type of research I do like yeah drone
swarms are a legit Tech we could make in
fact I'm pretty sure some they somewhat
already
exist true it's just crazy to me when I
think about it I don't know
I'd rather we fight each other with
drones than fight each other with
generators is that the image model or is
that something
else oh okay this is something
completely different
cool this is cool
work this is probably too much I have
not done my physics in very
hold on let me not get distracted too
much here I need to figure out what the
heck is wrong with this so we can uh
have this
work
PID
YX I'm pretty sure that this is like
some local variable Shenanigans
right yeah look I'm not getting the new
entity
here one of the places where python
scoping bites
right we can go like
this and then I can can I do the
combo
ha there you go that actually
works and this looks reasonable and okay
now we have to just make the
um now we just have to make the uh the
render right which I think I can just do
draw
wct let me
see draw
wct let me see which one of these we
want draw wreck rounded
it looks like you have to do two
calls but that's fine
right um so this will be rectangle lines
we'll do RL do
do uh what is
it t
start x equal
Target pix minus
radius no we'll just
do Target pix minus radius base color
let's just try this for now let's not
get fancy oops oh uh briefly is this
still running yes our hyper pram sweep
is still good
wrong draw a
rectangle whoops
so we zip over to
here and then we have just enough Mana I
believe usually to do the combo which is
this
uhoh uh why did it not do the
animation hold
on is it 150 Mana oh yeah yeah yeah look
there okay so we're going to replace
this with this this color I
think which
is uh the
cyan
background mid
color 0
128 mid color
animation test in Discord El
Capon let's
see you make really nice
animations can I show these on stream
generally or do you want like to only
show like final versions I know some
artists um have preferences
message up to
you sounds good I I generally do most of
my stuff in the work uh in the open with
the exception of like I've got one
project that will be made public soon
but yeah this is
these oh I see the I see the puffer fish
head
it like I didn't see it at first cuz it
kind of looks like a
helmet Spike Shield bro yeah I
see but it also isn't this isn't the top
of it is the top of it meant to be a
puffer it reminds me of oh man this is
so Niche let me see if I can find the
graphic for this
thing animation really sells what stuff
is it's
vaguely yeah it's freaking cool I mean I
love the like I like I really like this
idle animation and I really like this is
sweet no this is good I like
it I will definitely like I will
definitely use all of these in Ms if you
let
me I will have to substantially adjust
the art style of the Moa as it is now to
make it fit with something like this but
I can do that or if it makes more sense
we will do it in the uh Fire Emblem
style
M because it's got like a slight bit of
pixel crunch to it
right free use big guy free use big guy
a
awesome well thank
you I'm going to have to slot these in
to see what they
do raw it's raw no anti-aliasing I
see the only the other thing that I'm
not sure about
so depending on where we use these it
may or may not need movement a movement
animation right like the idle animation
that you have here this is like perfect
for like a like a turn-based like
tactical style thing where the pieces
just like Snap from one position to the
next or whatever in the mobo with like
Smooth
movement that might be
head puffer
Knight
cool heck
yeah a man we got to start that project
I have so many Sim projects I need to do
I can make him run doing it two bit like
this is nice and you can quickly iterate
hey whatever works like as like whatever
cool stuff you make I will find like an
m to use it in if it doesn't match this
one we'll do it in another one I'm not
going anywhere we're making tons of M's
and like this MOA has taken so long
because of the balancing and the tech
and stuff but generally it doesn't take
that long to make M's especially like uh
like the turn like a turnbas grid M type
thing that would not take long at all
like we could have a prototype with with
your artwork in there in like 2 to 3
days does this mean we're going to see a
puffer platformer um Atari already has a
bunch and procgen already has a bunch of
those
maybe
maybe like the really really simple M's
I'm going to leave to viewers like if if
you want to do something on about the
level of complexity as an Atari game and
want like some assistance but are
willing to do the implement
and like work through to make all the
stuff good like let me know we have two
people doing these and we need
more do what I can to cover most of the
cases of stuff you'll need for as far as
versel assets
awesome multi-purpose tile sets Etc cool
I'm going to have to figure out with the
tile sets whether we want to do um top
down or
isometric it's just going to basically
depend on
how hard is it to do an isometric
render it's not that hard
hard I remember it makes some issues
with like snapping tiles together and
stuff maybe but generally it should be
be in the meantime we do have
some basic attack
indicators ignore the lines
go little three4
perspective what's Loz
quarters I know what's like every oops
what's like every single tactical game
ever what's this
perspective not this like is
this I've got to see how much Nathan
wants to do on this as well because I
got to get him to start on some stuff
with that if he's going to after the new
m
this is ISO isn't
it we also have I think we have the tile
set from neural MMO we can use
still these are just like flat
Graphics this client was a nightmare but
the graphics are really nice these
Graphics were made by uh actually it was
a very similar case to you um where we
had an artist who wanted to volunteer
and contribute these were made by a a
blizzard artist
this is why these actually look very
nice we could technically reuse some of
this tile set for
stuff this client was a nightmare
because it's a web client in J in uh
typescript like if I were to just load
these into raist it would be way
easier literally rather work
in literally rather work in
cool see base color is
blue don't really need
this so this is
uh
highlight
base base color is no wait this is
highlight is
this
base accent
base is
128 0
this this is going to
be uh the accent color this will be base
and then this should look a lot nicer I
wish we had like line cap options and
stuff
but let's see how this
looks uh wrong
teams okay that I just saw looked really
good but we had the wrong teams so this
is
huh oh8
puffer
MOBA
really I thought we fixed this oh
they're
Alias they don't actually look bad when
you do it this
way oh did you see the tank there there
you go
zaps let's also do
where's the color
okay now our UI is in the same
color the team which is nice
we can do like stuff like
this having them flash red doesn't
really work
right because
like there's a red
team what should I do for damage instead
of having it flash
red I could have it flash in the color
opposite the
team
right because you can't tell with this
one when it's
red but that's kind of weird if you do
that um actually I think it works
because you have the hit trackers yeah I
think it
works there is always white let me try
this first
to let's try this
white FL hit
flash I'll also be drawing hert frames
okay let me see
how's something went weird there hold
on I can do white let me see if this
works first if I do opposite color
because then it will be like the tractor
beam will be connected to uh your team's
color
oh these guys don't have one because
they don't have a
team that's a little
awkward oh no they are flashing it's
just a little
uh they're flashing like the wrong color
aren't they
oh I just saw it flash
[Music]
cyan it's pretty confusing because it
makes it look like your
teammate let's do
a how do we do a white
flash a brighten flash actually does
that work cuz white is like the default
tint for
I could also do like a bloom effect
around
rib use webgl or something
else uh compiles to web
assembly so
yeah
it's it's C like this code won't work on
the web if I use if I wrote it using the
cap API it would that's what I do with
this snake
fs
and yeah we can just just copy this I
anything failed to open hold
on failed to
[Music]
open Bloom
this
okay so on hit there should be a bloom
Shader effect
it yeah I can totally see it so it
actually this is kind of cool I don't
know if it's worth the extra compute
it's probably not that yeah look at that
I we have some decent stuff here
now for
sure look at the tank there taking out
the Tower with its
AOE you see
that cool this mid zone is really
nice we have a few things to fix cuz
like the terrain is not perfectly
aligned I think I can go up into Terrain
like this or something yeah we have a
few alignment issues to fix with the
terrain um but other than that it should
be
solid let's check on our hyper pram
sweep how are our experiments
going after all we have been training
stuff this whole time
on we should have two
sweeps yeah no those weren't them so we
have this one and we have this
one so this one is the
Moa uh these are all random experiments
and now I think it's trying over here to
get better ones so it's going to take a
little while but it's you know it's
doing some
experiments got a run for the night
thanks for the advice yeah of course
thanks for dropping
Invaders close to 700 there and it's
going to
improve very nice what's a sweep this is
automatic hyper parameter tuning so
we're running 500
experiments uh 500 experiments currently
on Space Invaders 500 experiments on the
mobile that you're watching me develop
and uh this thing is evaluating skill
rating over time so this is actually
seeing what is the win rate of new
experiments versus old experiments and
this is all done automatically for
us we get all sorts of
stats and if this sweep matches the
previous one what should happen is
probably tomorrow or the next day uh we
will get back a very nicely tuned set of
hyperparameters that score very well on
this and we'll be able to see some
interesting new learned behaviors and
hopefully have a better set of bots for
the
all right here's what we're going to do
uh I'm going to use the rest real quick
and it's 6:30 I'm going to put in
another hour or so
maybe is there currently stun Buffs in
the mob yes there are I will be right
back and uh then we will figure out what
we're going to do to polish this up for
the evening and what additional stuff we
can do maybe we'll try some new models
uh maybe we'll we'll think of some fun
things to do with with this but if you
have any ideas for graphics in the
meantime start writing them down they'll
be right
drink is there currently stuns or buff
yes we have stuns slows and move speed
buff those are currently in the
available
skills the Assassin has a move speed
buff the carry has two different
abilities that inflict a slow and then
there are a couple different classes
that have a
stun is this all P game no I hate P game
this is
rib RB's
awesome I actually hate p p game so much
there's a base class called buff
there are no
classes um there are there are
components of a struct that keep track
of this
stuff so You' think that this project
would be pretty long by now right you'd
think that this would be several several
thousand lines of code right this is not
several thousand lines of code it's,
1600 total with a whole bunch of
comments and stuff probably I could cut
it down to 13 or
14400 um
this struct has gotten really chunky but
it's very easy to add stuff because yeah
it's just a bunch of stats that are
attached to each
entity so the Buffs for instance
are we can have like move speed there's
like a modifier here and then there are
like some timers on stuff that just tick
down it's pretty
simple then the
AI learns how to influence those stats
the AI learns how to use the abilities
in order to take advantage of their kit
the AI is not currently doing anything
about like influencing what abilities
are in the
game let me think what we can do on
Graphics here
do really depends on the art style we
want to go
do
because technically yes we can have the
AI change parameters of specific
abilities but
you'd have to run a quite large scale
experiment to determine if one is better
than the other because what you think
about it right like the only thing that
you can tell by changing the mechanics
is skill expression which means like
does making these new mechanics mean
that smart agents can be way better than
dumb agents which is harder to
measure I see what you're trying to do
with like the automated game design it's
very very difficult though like
because the only like you can't optimize
this for fun or interestingness you can
only optimize for stuff like skill
expression and that takes a lot of
compute so like what I could do for
instance is let's say that I had a set
of skills I could make it so that uh the
damage value of each skills is part of
the search of the
algorithm
um but then if I do that like I have to
run like 100 experiments at least for
each setting like that for every single
setting because I need to get skill
expression I need to understand like hey
if um if the skills have these damage
values instead of those damage values
does that make
it does that mean that there can be a
bigger MMR curve
essentially which is quite
tricky it's
doable it takes a lot of compute and
it's a little hard to set up I don't I
and for reference I'm not aware of like
anybody having done
this it's only remotely possible because
of how fast this simulator
is okay
um trying to think what I want to do to
polish some stuff off
here the project is actually in a
reasonable enough State at the time
being uh
not
really I wouldn't say that this
is what are the options well the color
scheme
is the the puffer color scheme for stuff
is always
cyan and when you need an opponent color
you just pick red and then you get
Tron so that's what we have for the the
current color scheme but then there is
still room for
like how pixel crunchy is it right is
everything just going to be fully flat
shaded are we going to go for like a
minimal colors thing are we going to
have like Bloom and stuff are we going
to go for like there are a lot of ways
that I could potentially go with this
um let me play around with a few things
with the bloom
filters cuz I don't think it's going to
add much performance overhead
what is Ryan Molton doing with the oh I
don't know this is just R my random
feed yeah I don't
know random Twitter
feed I am a pixel crunch
so how would you so here you see what
I've been working with right how would
you alter actually this is a great
question for you maybe this is what
we'll do for the last bit of the stream
here
um so you see what I'm working with
right I have a map I the map is like the
map just tells me where stuff is right I
can render it however I want um I have
an edge detector I can write shaders I
have ability to draw text
I have like geometric shapes that I can
do that I can put shaders on you can see
that I have like a little bit of Bloom
on this highlight here right for the
damage Splat this is what I have what
would you do to get this into like a
more pixel crunchy art style to see if
it looks better like what should I
Implement right now for this should I
try to like add some noise to the
terrain and the borders and the
background should I like yeah what what
do you think I should do
uh I don't know if rib has particles I
can look that up or
I I think there's some stuff but nothing
like crazy
standard there's no like Ray
particles terrain noise for sure makes
it easier to track
motion um okay you know what let me give
you can we do something in the middle
South let me give you a you know the old
school RuneScape art style like with
like the render lines on stuff you know
how like it renders and there like
render lines on
stuff what about I do something like
that or do you think it needs to be more
crunchy like you see how it has all the
render lines on
stuff like
this you can
see or do you think more crunchy is it
more like pixel crunch or is it more
like Smooth plus this thing how would
you go should I just add random noise to
the uh the
texture should I
like
yeah soft Sandy
noise okay
or bit game object spawn with a random
Direction damage text that type of stuff
I can
do I haven't actually added projectiles
yet
beard
output
Okay noise
times let's see what this does
and the pixels are too small this is
like actual individual pixel noise
move so it's just like a
filter which is also not what we want
mockup test yeah I think what I would
have to do
this text
chord I'm actually kind of surprised
that the first one didn't work
can we like is there like a round two or
like
okay no I don't like
this oh well wait maybe
okay so we can do float input x
equals scaled let's just
do six
times and then we do round
let me see about this I'm going to see
if I can make bigger
that didn't happen to fix
this I probably didn't push
that my eyes
[Music]
is this
way too
busy all
right it's almost good I mean I can mess
with the pixel
size like I can do
this that's got some crunch to it
right no
needs so you want coherent noise you
want like pearlin or Simplex or
something there's also absolutely
doesn't match the uh like the glow
whatever vibe from the other
stuff how do you produce
like gape rain render
effect how
is
no what's the
uh is it like rounding errors or
something what is it that causes that
why probably missing MOA or MOA needs to
be recompiled
this how do I recompile it set up. high
buildex in place
I'm trying to think how I would even
load this
in I could potentially do it it would be
a fair little bit of work
though it would honestly probably be
just as easy or easier to do it
procedurally though it would be slower
it's not pixel crunch as the thing it's
more like the freaking RuneScape like uh
Precision errow or whatever the hell it
was that causes their rendering to have
these
lines I could also do it statically
because it's really distracting to have
a moving background while you're playing
am MOA right
what if I made it squigger and I made it
static keep it I love it okay the one
concern is like it's really distracting
to have a moving background playing am
MOA isn't it like could I make it
squigger so it looks more like water but
have it be static or do you think it
needs to like this
right squiggler and slower okay slower
maybe it might end up having to be
static
let me see if I can make it
squiggly water does move but mobas don't
like moving
backgrounds okay so this is the
function so
renders perfectly it should render
perfectly and by the way it'll be way
faster if I Port this thing to see it'll
run on the web it'll run on a
phone anchor with ambient
objects landmarks possibly yes let me
just try a couple things first
magnitudes wait hold on let me figure
out what you're saying in a
second uh did I just break the Shader
yeah I just break the Shader hold
on uh cuz I forgot a
semicolon is there any way to make it
highlight
Fields make one of the magnet Su
function of the number of
hits what do you mean highlight
Fields I don't
know okay not this it's got to be the
other way around
moving make the bubble what is the
bubble that you're talking about
so this is not squiggly enough it needs
to
be squigger
I this I can chat GPT this I freaking
math is been so long I've done basic
geometry
I just need like a
rotated 90° don't
got a blip keep me in the loop get some
more ANM object C being thank you I'm
going to finish this and then I'm going
to get food and I'm going to head out
um we're going to make this cool though
thanks for dropping by and thanks for
the art it's
awesome can I do
this I think so
I need
to freaking math is hard basic math is
hard when you haven't done basic math in
Forever uh
function I'm so confused
here B basic
things is
this it doesn't squiggle
though wait does
tell somebody to give me a function that
works for what I'm trying to do
here so what I want is I just
want I want something that does like
like a wavy pattern or
whatever crunchy
that uh I should be able to do that
right
is I don't know if I want it to be
clipped to cells though
I honestly don't know if this is better
than the flat shade though
on what if I wanted to do squiggle on
the other axis it would just be
of sign of X isn't
it am I
dumb just
is holy hell these things are so
slow uh
[Music]
why is this so
difficult like
why can't I understand what it is I'm
trying to do here
it's a squiggle function it's a sine
wave but it's in a specific orientation
that I don't know how to
produce
um depends on both the X and the y
coordinate
oh is it just sign
of it like something like s of X+ y
this is what I have at the
moment this needs to be squiggly as
well I don't know if I'm too tired to do
this at the moment or if it's just been
just like forever since I've thought
about geometric functions whatsoever
it's probably a little bit of
both so what I'm trying to do maybe this
is actually basic enough math that some
one of you might actually know
this this is what I'm trying to do oh
not this one this one's
garbage one of you actually might know
what the hell this is that I'm trying to
do
so I want to have a function that looks
like this
so that the render
lines so it's like a sign along this
direction but then the gradient is this
way so like you know this is going to be
blue this is going to be slightly
Greener
whatever this
thing and this is like really really
basic math I'm just being stupid like
somebody's got to know
this so this gives you
this function here that I just drew is
this but I can't how do I wiggle these
lines I think you have to do you have to
like rotate
do oh is this
it I just did I just do
right wait this
is is this
1 -
x huh
this looks
promising
this this then needs to be rotated
doesn't
you can't really tell what this even
looks like from above can
don't do I need to like color this
in I can't tell I'm confused
throw it on
there I can try both of these
let's see what this
does and this might be too low frequency
to tell
colors it's just the
frequency okay so this is what this is
so this is not it
all well it's got like these waves but
it's not
yeah this is like Crossing two different
patterns
see I don't think this is it either I
could be
of pi over two is just to shift that
shouldn't
be does do it what if I just do like
this is the same thing and then you take
this pi/ 2 term off this these are all
constants all you did is this minus X
right the same thing
does uh this means I forgot a semicolon
most likely
yep I had to order food in a second I
miss lunch again and I'm
hungry uh die
yeah come on there's got to be some way
to get this
like hold on I have to actually figure
out what this supposed to look
is so it's not the need to be at the
same
height The Ridges should be at the same
height but they should be wavy
it okay that was actually kind of
non-trivial there's no way me not having
looked at any trig any GE geometry or
trigonometry in
freaking 15 years or whatever is going
to have seen
still so it's y
here how do I rotate it though
this doesn't
matter we'll do
still how do I wrot
like 10 X Plus
of this is almost it except that
the this is now this function is getting
cut up I
think or is this just the render being
dumb I can try this 10 x - 10 y or it's
like whatever the frequency
oh no I have like 15 people watching me
be [ __ ] at
trigonometry well this is
it we got a skele it and
stuff but that's your Sandy Beach or
whatever
none of us had the answer either
yeah but I'm supposed to be an MIT PhD
is the
thing I'm supposed to be able to do
basic
math so the expectation is uh yeah no
comment
crunchy 100x is not going to be
visible I think it's lower res that we
got to go
fine this is not even going to be
anything Pokemon looking
Shader Pokemon does happen to be one of
the projects that is H sponsored by
puffer AI for
compute wait what
that actually might does this actually
work well
[ __ ] I mean this is like if we want it
to be pixel
crunch I could do the same thing with
this function but
smooth is that better or
worse this is also two this is not
subtle enough as well let me fix that
wave yeah we'll have to play with it a
little bit more um let me think I don't
like that it goes to White
now the background
is just on the
okay so you need some rounding otherwise
computer Precision screws you
I think that's computer
Precision uh screwing you let's do
4096 okay that's not what was intended
at
yeah okay so here's a smooth
version right
there's something to it I shouldn't be
there's something to it
go it's a little too strong at the
moment actually much too strong
but here's the cool part about this
right watch what happens when we go the
other side of the
map h
aggressive why does it look like too
smeared to
me transition pulls its way
yeah I can't tell if it's too high res
or too low res hang
16384 16
384 and then I do four so this is
32 is that any better is this smoother
uh machine precision
dang okay you can't do
that get out of the region where ins so
nice
I think I might like this effect just
like really
subtle it's like too much it's like kind
of like you just threw a background on a
let me go down even a little tiny bit
more or is this
it we think this is it or do we go down
a little
more down more
hey pubs we're doing disgusting shaders
with no syntax
highlighting because of course we are
welcome pebs
Yep this is really subtle but it's no
longer like
distracting
right and then if we go over
to yeah this is pretty
nice and then if we go over to the
main hold on let's just kill this guy we
go over to the main like transition here
it's pretty cool
right do we want to crank up the glow a
little tiny bit
color Where's the
[Music]
this the glow is too
fast I think I can have I can get away
with the more intensity but I have to
it's got to be slower
the glow is much more noticeable but
it's less obnoxious because it's
slower background is static and very
subtle
honestly don't know if the background
effect is any better than solid
background we'll keep it for
now I mean like the the thing of it
being sand with like the puffers or
waves or whatever is
cool sleep on
it is this going to be another PR that
breaks things
right I think we're good here
then let me try a couple small things
very small things real quick oh [ __ ] I
forgot to order food let me order food
I'm not cuz yeah let me go do that
and uh we'll we'll keep going until it
gets here since we've had a pretty solid
stream
day oh and uh while I'm doing this folks
there is something you can do for free
to help out the
platform all the stuff is free and open
source it's in puffer right
here star of the repository helps me out
a ton we're at 823 and uh the growth is
really really helpful
get yeah I did not have lunch today
either
actually I could do that would be good
for
me take slightly longer but that's not
terrible
there we
go getting some
f all
right linear growth is unhealthy for
puffers exactly puffers actually they
have to get bigger
exponentially this just how it works I
don't make the
paper figured I'd get more people with
this now whatever all right
um let's
there a couple last things I want to
play
text oh
yeah it doesn't look particularly good
but it works right
one I kind of like it on the uh the
aoe's
maybe yeah it's not
attacks I think the Shader just doesn't
work as expected right
yeah so for whatever reason it's not
um it's not working correctly with
this that's okay we can still use it
for we'll see if we want it
here access
quality let's bump this up to like four
this is still too much I say we go back
we had it
before let's just go back to
two I really don't like the um the lack
of any aliasing on the line is just
rough few other things like
that so what happens if I expand
this can I not oh I just can't I can't
resize this oh wait yes I can oh and
nothing happens because uh it doesn't
it's not set up to be resizable I can
potentially fix that
yeah this doesn't work should this
work
probably it'll be much
cooler character on the screen is kind
of small I think
but I have a 1440p monitor it'll be more
reasonable on a
1080 and it's still not that bad
what other small things can we fix here
real
experiments nothing really good yet I
can see it's trending up but it'll take
a while I think
that's
weird we'll see about
that ELO is based only on winds so
basically if they're farming they're not
going to get um points if they're just
going to keep
classes just tuned in what's
up well I'll show you
welcome
JBL welcome to puffer
screen what do you mean it's off the
screen it shows that it's on the screen
work top of the windows cut off is the
top of the window cut off for anybody
else or is it just bet
oops there's still a little bit of work
to be done here
but pretty
nice why is a puffer fish for
mascot I like it it's very
today yeah there you go there's the
there are the tanks fighting those are
the two tanks with the like the little
AOE around them like that
Geometry Dash Vibes yeah I was thinking
about making it more Geometry
Dash and like doing just pure flat
shaded with more Bloom and more
colors we might still go that way but
somebody recommended doing like a wavy
pattern so I figured out how to make one
of these this is a
puffer
that and
funny you haven't heard of the Stamford
dish unless you like go actually do
exercise
so Ray has
shaders uh I mean it has support for
glsl
yeah they also have
rlg new blw up after a run
you shouldn't be like blowing out knees
from
there were two things I wanted to do
actually the first and we're going to
make this full screenable but before
that let me find the darn thing
here
there this is for the uh the
neutrals and
this can I just like click this button
now
uh almost
except it doesn't do the
Shader it's not doing the Shader so let
me figure that
be texture
X divide by 32 which is the tile size
divide by
cord does the texture is the texture
size just not allowed to change is that
what's up
yeah I don't is it even yeah is it even
used it's not even
used yeah it's not even used it's this
conversion factor is what we
use let me check
[Music]
set Shader
value draw texture Shader canvas ah
I think I can just pre-allocate this to
be
larger and we'll figure this out I mean
like we're not writing good code today
we're kind of just like doing [ __ ] fast
boom I think is the game starting to
chug just a little
bit it probably is it's rendering a lot
of
yeah still though that's a pretty cool
looking that's pretty cool looking
right for
do we just tweet
this think
it I don't know if I want to wait and
polish a little more before I tweet
it we'll see it annoys me that it's
chugging a little bit here for
good
yeah oh we got full
game if we go back to
here it's now uh full speed
again so it's probably just the python
rendering we could always cash some
stuff let's make uh a few small UI
tweaks and call a day
okay let me let me commit this first
then
twice you did the same PR for this code
piece
why is this not just if self. dtype is
not none
emulated isn't it only emulated if there
is a complex space
I can merge it for now
does bet this should not change existing
policies right because if this changes
existing policies it'll break anything
that has a pre-trained default
okay because it's Thursday not Friday I
will merge
this but if I have to fix this tomorrow
I'm going to be pissed if I don't I'll
be very
merged thank you for
PR thank you for
here I
don't you're not on here
right all right you can DM me how you'd
like to be listed on
here I just haven't updated this page
like I guess I updated this page for the
uh the snake en
I might do like a block for the Pokemon
team or something we'll
see I have to be on here some
way for sure though
one I should really post a gift instead
of this
huh let me post a
let me fix that bug let me fix that bug
real quick
do you take python M or do you need scon
we take fast
M's which are very hard to make in pure
python
hard you can prototype stuff in Python
if you like
it's it's not
hard 26k for what are you uh what are
you making this 26k
yeah I would learn
scyon first of all it's a gateway to
lower level
programming uh and also it's just damn
fast
so it's very
nice how are we on
food I haven't
eaten uh it's on the way but very
slow
damn make it in Python and look at
porting yeah it takes a little bit of
learning not too bad
maybe has some
bugs um why don't we why don't we think
about a couple of data structures and
things I don't actually think I have the
ability to do that now that's kind of
make sure that this one is running well
we have 75 experiments
already still going up but it's not
matched this original one yet
interesting
gift I'm trying to think about the
characters character art
here let me see what link
is you message me Star Puffer by
mistake um
I really like these I don't know if they
fit the Moa or if we're going to use
them for a different M though let me
see what do you guys think on these
these are like awesome so these are made
by a viewer who is wanting to contribute
artwork for these Ms
um we have like vaguely puffer themed
actually this is puffer Knight
Ah that's funny linky yeah I got it on
user mode so they don't pop up they have
it on streamer mode so they don't pop
up we definitely need different
characters of some sort
what's next for
ocean oh there are tons of M we can
make honestly the main thing is I have
to figure
out there like a few framework things I
got to figure out so that I end up with
less code for some of these things um
and there are like certain elements I
keep repeating having to do the work for
but like coding core Sims is fun and is
very quick
I really like these it's just I think I
would have
to I'm trying to think if I want to do
like the next en which would
be I got to ask Nathan about what he
thinks with these and
the uh like grid combat
en cuz this could be like a really cool
5v5 thing over
emergent tool you s that's what linky
was just talking
about what the heck is B messaging
me gotcha BET next time I do the uh I
the web
en off to run from stream thanks bet see
you around yeah several Stars gained
it's really nice to see just the metrics
on the growth
here the other one that I learned the
other
day you actually can see that we get
where is it
we actually have a fair few downloads on
this thing and
like we don't most of the users don't
use the package as
well so we do have people downloading
and using it
maybe some company has it in their tests
CU we have like pretty consistent
usage this actually looks really good at
this
size if you pip install it as a
dependency yeah but it doesn't count it
if you clone
it and like install Loc
this guy actually he looks really nice
um at the size he would be displayed at
yeah but you don't install pip install
is a dependency 15 times a day
I want to figure out where to use these
These are so
well the thing is the alternative here
is
like you can't tell what the heck
class each of the puffers is by looking
at them at the
moment that's the bad thing
minions Tower Defense en would be crazy
too if you want a tower defense en make
one right nothing stopping
you we need more people making M's for
puffer I even will help with design and
like structure and like lowlevel stuff
to get it to be fast on stream
doesn't have to be puffer Tower Defense
unless you want Ultra fan service like
and this
cool I think that I need to the next
thing with these
Sims at some point I need
to man at some point I need to
really figure out how to like get some
of the components of these Sims to be a
little bit more reusable
not like structure no like base classes
or really anything I just need to figure
out a few things with the data
transfer I'd be down to work on this
after I wrap up some projects don't know
of any Tower Defense SS well you you're
going to have to think a little bit
about the action
space and the observation
space so the architecture I have at the
moment I've tested it and
you can give it like an 11 by 11 window
of you in eights and it's Ultra fast but
if you give it more and more data you
start having the bandwidth problems so
if you're going to have like a 50x50
grid or something for a tower defense
and that all has to be globally observed
that's going to be rough if your action
space is like pick Tower type to build
and then pick tile to build it on that's
like a giant action space that's going
to be tough right it's also single agent
so like all the logic on every step has
to be done for every single environment
if it's not like somehow a multi-agent
tower en Tower Defense en
um so you you'd have to think about it a
little
bit Yeah so this is what I mean when I
say like you know the RL experience is
is in comes in handy here
right like this is the type of [ __ ] that
I think about constantly right I think
about environments in terms of
observation space action space and then
computational requirements behind
Computing actions I mean Computing
observations right those are the main
bottlenecks
I'm trying to think whether I should
stream tomorrow this it was so nice
today um at the same time a three-day
weekend would be would make it way
easier cuz like I work on the video over
the weekend if I worked on the video
tomorrow I'd probably be able to have it
close to done by
Monday I really need that video to be
done
absolutely we'll see what I do tomorrow
I'm going to try to get make good time
and see if I can get a little bit of
stuff done early
maybe as the stream usually warms up
later in the evening
anyways maybe I'll see if I can get like
a three-hour block done on the video and
see how it's going
oh actually wait Dave I think David just
found something
I was just check checking I thought
David found something but I don't think
he
did let me how much time do I have
before food is here maybe I can think
about this with you for a second JBL if
you're still there let me just see if
where food is because I'm like
absolutely starving I've uh okay yeah
I've still got I have like another 5 10
minutes
I played one lately that was pretty cool
but would be too crazy to implement
you should play this if you like Tower
Defense games it's like te it's like a
tower defense but you make the pathway
with Tetris
blocks so like you make the paths with
Tetris
blocks to make the pass longer
yeah it was pretty
cool I get bored of a lot of games very
quickly these days though
do you need to have multiple enemies per
tile maybe
actually it would be really easy to do
this type of a thing where like you make
the path with the
towers you would have to do um you'd
have to do like the grid tile based
thing though you could make it
continuous but you'd still have to have
a grid internally
the main thing that just sucks with
these is
like the AI is pretty
heavy yeah you're going to have a little
bit of a tough time making this thing
fast so JBL the issue that you're going
to run
into I'm going to I'm going to draw some
stuff so people can actually this will
be good for people to look at so
here so um you have like a
tower right
here and then you're going to have like
a path or whatever so let's say that
this is on a
grid it doesn't have to technically be
on a grid it doesn't have to look like
it's on a grid but you're going to have
one internally either way
path and then you have like your minions
or
whatever so you're going to be a minion
here right and they're going to go
forward
do it's the same as like the range check
on the tower right but the thing is you
have to do it for every Tower and
possibly you're going to want like
substantially large
ranges
like you probably want to do something
like this
and now in order to decide which of
these things to do you have to do a
nearest Target
check so you have to do nearest Target
on all of these and then you figure out
that it's this one and you have to do
this for every Tower and Tower Defense
games have tons of freaking Towers right
not to and then the minions do their
pathing that's not
bad but the fact that you have to
basically do all these freaking checks
for every
that you might actually it might not be
that that
bad I bet with the same exact tricks I
used in the MOBA you could make this at
least fast enough
man this is why I need this [ __ ] in C so
I can start reusing some of these
functions I'm making
though how big is the observation space
have to
be has to be
large enough
H I thought of a way you could do it
that would be kind of
cool yo JBL I thought of uh I thought of
a way you could do it that would be
really cute
so hear me out on this
um what are your thoughts on Co-op
multi-agent tower defense in which each
player uh controls a like a a region of
the
you can do it continuous you need to
internally discretize though for the
range
checks if you don't internally
discretize then you need to do a KD tree
so this is how I would do this JBL
though this is this starts to become
like more complicated than a traditional
game technically but I think it's easier
from the RL side so what you would do
is usually the what I give is I give 11
by 11 crops as a standard for
observations um it's just it's a good
size you can make it a little larger you
can make it a little smaller but
do so let's say that this is here it can
be continuous right it's going to be
internally
discretized but let's say that this is
your like the path that the minions take
okay what you're going to do is you're
going to break this up
into chunks like Minecraft style
chunks like
this and
then you have a shared amount of gold
and the actions you can
build you can build a tower on any step
right but like this is Agent one here
this is Agent two this is Agent three
you could do something like this you
could also just limit it to be a tower
defense with very small Maps the other
thing that I'm realizing actually is
[ __ ] this would be cool so the other I
am realizing that there is one
additional problem
um the problem with a tower defense game
is it's basically like
a you don't actually do stuff for the
vast majority of the game
right like you basically like you put a
few Towers you start the round you watch
the thing like go and then you play to
put a few more
Towers so having to just like simulate
an entire game between actions would be
really
rough if you want wanted to do like a
traditional one with like rounds and
such that would be pretty bad I
think you could
substantially there's a lot of of like
compute processing that you can save
here so there are a lot of ways to speed
it
up I think you'd probably end up wanting
to do a thing where like you put a lot
of towers down very quickly so the games
themselves are pretty
short internal Sim engine yeah and the
same way that the Moa has an internal
Sim engine you write it it'll be a few
hundred lines of code you just have to
think about
it so like one thing I could see is
um you would prune by chunk so if there
are no agents in a chunk you don't do
any any like Tower checks for the
that it would make sense to have it
be like maybe not rounds so no rounds
just like things just continue to spawn
and they get stronger over over time and
we see how long things how long you can
survive
um you'd probably do something where
you'd make like some towers that can
like make the things more vulnerable so
they take increased damage from there on
out or whatever and see if like the ones
that are early on learn to do that
is and then the question is like is the
game actually interesting to play
tower defenses don't tend to be that
hard and it's actually difficult to tell
what a good strategy is versus a bad
one you could totally do it I would just
tell you like you're getting yourself
into a project that's only slightly less
complex to implement than the Moa that
I'm currently doing
discreet that would help a little bit
you'd save a little on that not a
if you're going to autogen the maps
that's kind of
tough there's a fair bit involved with
this like I could it this is the type of
project that I would be very confident
that I could
do but not confident that I could do
like in a few days this one like it this
would require a fair bit of
thought so think about it think about
how much this is the one that you want
to do right
there are all sorts of environments we
need in puffer this would be pretty cool
I think probably something like a mobo
is going to give you more bang for your
buck if you're going to implement
something that crazy complex
um yeah simple with a lot of intrinsic
complexity so what I'm looking at now
I'm looking at like board game in
inspired stuff the problem with board
games is that they are played in turns
which is really obnoxious
it's way better when everybody can play
at the same
time I mean if you just want to like
make something to get started to get
used to like if you haven't done
performance engineering Sims in scyon
and stuff and you just want like a
project that will only take a few days
and will be useful and will let you get
used to this and understand what you're
able what you're capable of taking on I
would say just do another Atari
en we've got um breakout and pong like
pick one of the other
seven Space Invaders asteroids right
pick one that nobody else is
doing Turn base would be a new feature
for puffer right yes it's not but it's
not a feature at the environment level I
have a way of implementing it I
technically have a way to support that
but it's kind of inefficient
the annoying thing about turn-based is
that the way that you have to look at it
is that you have like you're getting
half of the data at every time step so
you're sending double data through the
whole pipeline but you're only using
half of
it that gets more
technical I can explain why it's hard
but that's more
technical my food is here I am
starving um
if you want to try
something I would suggest
like you're going to get stuck on as
you're going to get stuck on Space
Invaders too though because it's not
based you could probably do state-based
Space Invaders and make that ridiculous
ly fast in a few days um I don't know if
there any easier ones
left maybe cubert I don't know if
anybody knows how to play
cubert the original Seven Atari Ms
though are ones that we want to have at
some
point we have breakout and pong now from
Nathan and
Noah there there are a lot more Ms I
want to do I want to do trading card
games eventually I want to do some board
game stuff I want to do like something
like a simulation Style game there are a
lot of things I want to
do but yeah think about it for now I
am I got to go eat so thanks everybody
if you want to help out for
free start this
repo yeah just remember that breakout
and pong are already being done so it
would have to be one of the other seven
the seven ones that were used in dqn
it's like it's
Enduro uh cubert sequest Space Invaders
and beam Rider I think are the other
ones so yeah star the puffer to help out
and uh thank you very much everybody
this has been pretty crazy to see the
amount of people that it will tune in to
just watch slow Dev so see you see you
all around and thank